Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"Pilot"	Joss Whedon	Joss Whedon, Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	September24,2013	12.12
Following the Battle of New York, Agent Phil Coulson, having survived his apparent death before the battle, assembles a team of agents (Melinda May, Grant Ward, Leo Fitz, and Jemma Simmons) to investigate superhumans and other related phenomena, which are now public knowledge. Their first assignment involves Mike Peterson, who was supplied with an extremis-containing serum by Project Centipede. Skye, a member of the hactivist group the Rising Tide, who saw Peterson in action, warns him about S.H.I.E.L.D. and offers to help him, but he declines. While visiting the scene where Peterson rescued a woman from a burning building, the team learns that the fire was caused by another subject exploding due to the Extremis. Skye is kidnapped by Peterson, who is now on the run and makes her erase all his personal information. Coulson's team is able to track them down and subdue Peterson, taking him into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody. Viewing Skye as an asset, Coulson offers her a place on his team.
2	2	"0-8-4"	David Straiton	Maurissa Tancharoen, Jed Whedon & Jeffrey Bell	October1,2013	8.66
Skye is now integrated into Coulson's team as a consultant. Their next assignment is in Peru, tracking an "0-8-4", a S.H.I.E.L.D. code for "an object of unknown origin". Once there, the team quickly realizes that the object is a piece of forgotten Hydra technology powered by Tesseract energy. Coulson meets with a former colleague and officer in the Peruvian military, Camilla Reyes, and brings her team aboard their plane, the Bus. Reyes betrays Coulson in order to take the Hydra weapon for her government so they can defeat Peruvian rebels. The squabbling team members band together, and take out Reyes' men. When the plane lands at a S.H.I.E.L.D. base, Reyes is taken into custody. Later, Skye is revealed to still be loyal to the Rising Tide, while Director Nick Fury scolds Coulson for the damage to the plane, and warns him of the risk Skye poses.
3	3	"The Asset"	Milan Cheylov	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	October8,2013	7.87
S.H.I.E.L.D. searches for one of its assets, Dr. Franklin Hall, who was kidnapped by Ian Quinn, CEO of Quinn Worldwide, using a gravity-based device. Quinn wants to use Hall to take control of the planet's gravity by building a giant "gravitonium" generator. Heading to Malta with the team, Skye volunteers to infiltrate Quinn's mansion during a party so that Coulson and Ward can rescue Hall. Skye tricks Quinn into believing she is betraying S.H.I.E.L.D. for the Rising Tide. However, Coulson soon discovers that Hall perpetrated his own escape in order to find the gravitonium along with the generator and destroy both. Coulson warns him that doing so would end up killing millions. Their violent disagreement forces Coulson to send Hall into the generator, seemingly consuming him, but shutting the machine down at the same time. Coulson orders that the gravitonium be placed under S.H.I.E.L.D. high security and off the books; however, S.H.I.E.L.D. does not notice that Hall is still somehow alive within the gravitonium.
4	4	"Eye Spy"	Roxann Dawson	Jeffrey Bell	October15,2013	7.85
Coulson and his team investigate a series of diamond thefts by Coulson's former protégé Akela Amador, who is being blackmailed by an unknown handler using an explosive cybernetic eye. Coulson is able to take Amador to the Bus, while Fitz and Simmons create a pair of glasses that hijack her feed. This allows Ward to carry out Amador's mission while the team attempts to disarm and remove her cybernetic eye. Ward completes the mission, discovering mysterious carvings, while Coulson finds who he thinks is Amador's handler, only for that man to be killed through a similar device to Amador's. With the cybernetic eye now removed, Amador is taken away by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, though Coulson promises her she will have a fair trial in which he will testify for her. Before she goes, Amador tells May that something seems different to her about Coulson.
5	5	"Girl in the Flower Dress"	Jesse Bochco	Brent Fletcher	October22,2013	7.39
The team attempts to find Chan Ho Yin, a Chinese street performer with pyrokinetic abilities, after he is kidnapped by Project Centipede recruiter Raina. Raina injects him with Extremis to increase his power, before harvesting his blood platelets for further experimentation. Skye knows a hacker who could have released the information on Chan's location and abilities, and secretly sleeps with him, trying to discover the truth. May finds them and, not trusting Skye, arrests them. S.H.I.E.L.D. attacks the Centipede facility, and attempts to help Chan, but he refuses and May activates the unstable Extremis within him to kill him. Coulson questions Skye, and she reveals that she joined the Rising Tide and S.H.I.E.L.D to find her parents. Coulson agrees to help her, but fits her with a device to block any computer access. Raina visits Centipede member Po in prison, telling him to inform the "Clairvoyant" of the experiment results.
6	6	"FZZT"	Vincent Misiano	Paul Zbyszewski	November5,2013	7.15
The team investigate a series of deaths involving levitation and electrostatic anomalies. Although the team initially assumed the deaths were caused by some form of weapon, the cause is found to be an alien virus from a Chitauri helmet salvaged from the Battle of New York. When Simmons is infected by the fatal virus, she and Fitz work feverishly on a cure while Coulson ignores a direct order from Agent Felix Blake to sacrifice Simmons and save the rest of the team. With time running out and unaware that their last attempt at a vaccine was successful, Simmons leaps from the plane, though Ward manages to save her by jumping out after her and inoculating her before she dies. May tells Coulson, who feels differently than he did before he died, that anyone would be changed by such an experience. The helmet is delivered to Agent Blake, who warns Coulson of the consequences of disobeying a direct order from headquarters, though Coulson dismisses this, accepting that he is different now.
7	7	"The Hub"	Bobby Roth	Rafe Judkins & Lauren LeFranc	November12,2013	6.67
At The Hub, a S.H.I.E.L.D. command facility, Agent Victoria Hand assigns Ward and Fitz to a mission in South Ossetia, where they must disable a weapon called "the Overkill Device", which turns enemy weapons against their users. Skye and Simmons try to find more information about the mission, which has been classified as Level 8, with Simmons tranquilizing Agent Jasper Sitwell when he catches her hacking into Level 8 files. Skye learns that there is no extraction team for them, and informs Coulson, who takes his team to rescue Ward and Fitz, who are successful in their mission. Later at The Hub, Coulson discovers that the person who brought Skye to the orphanage was an unidentified S.H.I.E.L.D. agent. However, Coulson does not tell Skye the entire truth about the file, and asks May to discreetly investigate further. Coulson is later denied access to information about his recuperation in Tahiti, despite his Level 8 clearance.
8	8	"The Well"	Jonathan Frakes	Monica Owusu-Breen	November19,2013	6.89
The team look into a plot to find and assemble three parts of an Asgardian Berserker Staff which imbues the holder with super strength and an uncontrollable rage. They are opposed by a pagan hate group who have already discovered the first piece of the staff. With Thor off the grid, Coulson's team is assisted by Dr. Elliot Randolph. While retrieving the second piece of the staff, Ward touches it and relives a traumatic childhood memory involving his abusive older brother. He becomes irritable, aggressive, and his strength increases. The team realizes that Randolph is an Asgardian who has lived on Earth for centuries, and he gives them the location of the third staff piece. The team recovers it, and Ward and May use the completed staff to defeat the pagans. In a hotel, Ward declines Skye's invitation to talk, instead following May into her room, while Coulson has a nightmare about his recuperation in Tahiti.
9	9	"Repairs"	Billy Gierhart	Maurissa Tancharoen & Jed Whedon	November26,2013	9.69
A mysterious force threatens Coulson's team when they bring in a safety inspector named Hannah Hutchins, who is blamed for an explosion that killed four technicians, and who Coulson believes has developed telekinesis from the explosion. After the plane makes an emergency landing, the team discovers that the mysterious force is one of the technicians named Tobias Ford who is trapped between Earth and "Hell" following the explosion. Ford "targets" Hutchins to protect her from those who would try to harm her. It is later revealed that Ford caused minor safety issues and filed safety reports to spend time with Hutchins. One of his issues inadvertently caused the explosion. May manages to defeat Ford and convinces him to let go, causing Ford to disappear to an unknown location. Coulson tells more about May's difficult past and how he wants to help her recover. May later pulls a prank on Fitz, revealing that she is healing.
10	10	"The Bridge"	Holly Dale	Shalisha Francis	December10,2013	6.11
Coulson recruits Peterson to his team for super soldier support when Edison Po is sprung from prison by upgraded Centipede super soldiers. Coulson's team traces a Centipede-powered soldier to an abandoned factory and are ambushed by a squad of super soldiers, who were subjected to the same eye implant as Akela Amador. Po recommends Raina to stop inquiring after the Clairvoyant or it could mean her death. Meanwhile, Coulson and May are keeping information regarding Skye's parents from her. When Peterson contacts his son, Ace, he learns that he has been kidnapped by Centipede, who suggest a trade – Peterson for his son. Coulson escorts Peterson to the arranged exchange, where Peterson reveals that Centipede want Coulson, not Peterson. Coulson agrees to be taken prisoner. After the exchange, Peterson attempts to rescue Coulson, but is apparently killed in an explosion. Raina tells Coulson that they want to know how he was resurrected.
11	11	"The Magical Place"	Kevin Hooks	Paul Zbyszewski & Brent Fletcher	January7,2014	6.63
Victoria Hand leads S.H.I.E.L.D.'s efforts to rescue Coulson while Centipede tortures him to learn the secret of his resurrection. Believing Skye to be untrustworthy, and after seeking May's input, Hand has Skye removed from the Bus. Skye sets out on her own investigation which leads the team to Coulson's location. After the Clairvoyant kills Po, Raina takes over Coulson's interrogation. She uses a scanning device to compel him to remember aspects of his being brought back to life. As Coulson experiences flashbacks, the team rescues him after capturing Raina. Coulson confronts Streiten, who tells Coulson he had been dead for days, and was resurrected at the orders of Director Fury. Streiten reveals that after his revival, Coulson had lost the will to live, and that the doctors manipulated Coulson's brain to give him false memories in order for him to continue his work. It is later revealed that Peterson is alive, albeit badly burned, missing the lower half of his right leg, with an explosive surveillance eye implanted in him by someone working for the Clairvoyant.
12	12	"Seeds"	Kenneth Fink	Monica Owusu-Breen & Jed Whedon	January14,2014	6.37
While at a S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy Ward, Fitz, Simmons, and Skye investigate an attack upon Seth Dormer, a popular cadet, with an "ice machine" that can freeze people and their surroundings. Another ice machine soon freezes cadet Donnie Gill, though the agents are able to save him. While the rest of the team interrogates the other cadets, Fitz befriends Gill, seeing much of himself in him, and helps him solve a problem with a new power source. Meanwhile, Coulson and May go to Mexico City to find a former agent named Richard Lumley, who tells them of a mission 21 years earlier involving Skye, an 0-8-4 with apparent superhuman abilities. The team deduces that the cadets are building a bigger ice machine for Quinn, and with the better power source, Dormer and Gill give Quinn a demonstration, creating a massive ice storm. Though the team apprehends Gill, Dormer is killed by the storm, and Gill gains apparent cryokinetic abilities. Later, Coulson calls Quinn, who has connections to the Clairvoyant.
13	13	"T.R.A.C.K.S."	Paul Edwards	Lauren LeFranc & Rafe Judkins	February4,2014	6.62
Hunting the Clairvoyant, the team boards a train in Italy on which a Cybertek Inc. security group is shipping a package to Quinn. The group is exposed, forcing Coulson and Ward to flee the train. Meeting up with May, they get back to the train and Simmons, but Fitz and Skye are gone, having already followed the package to Quinn's mansion. Skye is confronted by Quinn, and discovers the alive Peterson in a hyperbaric chamber. Inside the package is a high-tech prosthetic leg from Cybertek's "Project Deathlok" that Quinn fits onto Peterson's amputated right leg. Peterson goes on to murder the Cybertek guards on the orders of the Clairvoyant, who once again has kidnapped Ace. Quinn shoots Skye twice in the stomach and leaves her for dead. S.H.I.E.L.D. raids the mansion and finds Skye after capturing Quinn. Simmons can only sustain Skye temporarily by placing her in the hyperbaric chamber.
14	14	"T.A.H.I.T.I."	Bobby Roth	Jeffrey Bell	March4,2014	5.46
Skye is rushed to a S.H.I.E.L.D. medical facility, but the doctors are only able to stabilize her. Agents John Garrett and Antoine Triplett arrive to take Quinn for questioning, but Coulson refuses to turn him over. Garrett decides to interrogate Quinn on the Bus, learning that the Clairvoyant ordered Quinn to shoot Skye so they could learn about Coulson's resurrection. Fitz and Simmons, after looking over Coulson's files, realize that Coulson was revived at a place known as the "Guest House", where Coulson, Ward, Garrett, and Fitz head for answers. Fitz finds the drug, while Coulson finds a room marked "T.A.H.I.T.I." where he finds the source of the drug, the upper half of a blue-skinned humanoid corpse. Everyone escapes the facility, which was rigged to explode, and despite Coulson attempting to prevent Fitz from giving Skye the drug based on what he saw in the T.A.H.I.T.I. room, Fitz gets the drug to Simmons in time to successfully save Skye.
15	15	"Yes Men"	John Terlesky	Shalisha Francis	March11,2014	5.99
The Asgardian Lorelei enslaves a biker gang and begins to form an army, while the team is summoned to investigate an energy reading from the Bifrost, encountering Sif, who is seeking Lorelei. She explains that Lorelei escaped imprisonment during the attack of the Dark Elves and to neutralize her power of controlling the minds of men, Sif must fit a special collar around her neck that prevents her from speaking. They fight Lorelei and her men, but Lorelei enchants Ward and they commandeer the Bus. Lorelei tells May that Ward loves someone else. Sif confronts Lorelei while May fights Ward and fixes the collar to her neck, undoing her enchantment. Sif returns Lorelei to Asgard, and May ends her relationship with Ward. Coulson tells Skye the origin of the drug used to revive them, and despite how disturbed Coulson is by this fact, Skye remains optimistic. He orders Skye to keep the origin of the drug a secret until Fury gives them the truth. Unknown to them, May is monitoring their conversation, and reporting to someone else.
16	16	"End of the Beginning"	Bobby Roth	Paul Zbyszewski	April1,2014	5.71
Agents Garrett, Triplett, Hand, Sitwell, and Blake join the team in hunt of the Clairvoyant. The agents pair up to pursue different candidates. While searching for Thomas Nash, May and Blake encounter Peterson / Deathlok and tag him with a tracker. They soon converge on his new location while Triplett and Simmons stay at the Hub with Hand. The team finds Nash, a vegetative man on life support who communicates through a computer. When Nash boasts about being the Clairvoyant and says that Centipede will kill Skye, Ward kills him. Coulson and Skye soon realize that Nash was not the Clairvoyant, and that the Clairvoyant is a high-ranking member of S.H.I.E.L.D. Coulson accuses Ward of working with the Clairvoyant and shooting Nash, but they are interrupted when Fitz discovers May's secret phone line. As Coulson and Skye standoff with May in the hangar, control of the Bus is hijacked by the Hub, where Hand orders everyone onboard to be killed.
17	17	"Turn, Turn, Turn"	Vincent Misiano	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	April8,2014	5.37
Garrett's jet is attacked by S.H.I.E.L.D. drones after the Bus is hijacked, and he rejoins the team. At the Hub, Simmons and Triplett begin working together to secretly upload Simmons's research on Skye's blood, only for a Hydra assault on all S.H.I.E.L.D. facilities to force them into hiding. Coulson locks May in the interrogation room with Ward, still believing she is the traitor. Skye discovers a secret code in a signal on S.H.I.E.L.D.'s network that she deciphers to reveal Hydra's infiltration. When the Bus arrives at the Hub, the group splits into teams to capture Hand. However, Hand reveals that she is not a member of Hydra but believes that Coulson is, and recruits Triplett and Simmons to aid her in stopping them. Garrett accidentally discloses information that reveals himself as the true Clairvoyant, and is captured by Coulson and May. Ward accompanies Hand to the Fridge so he can see to Garrett's imprisonment personally, but shortly reveals his own allegiance to Hydra by killing Hand and freeing Garrett.
18	18	"Providence"	Milan Cheylov	Brent Fletcher	April15,2014	5.52
Ward frees Raina and introduces Garrett to her as the Clairvoyant. Though disappointed that he is not actually clairvoyant, she agrees to try to replicate the "Guest House" drug. Colonel Glenn Talbot sends a military team to the Hub, so Coulson leaves with the team and Triplett, ordering Skye to erase all their identities, including Ward's. Coulson discovers a message with coordinates in the Canadian wilderness, where they discover the hidden S.H.I.E.L.D. base Providence, run by Agent Eric Koenig. Coulson learns from Koenig that Fury is alive but is told to keep the information secret. He also learns from May that Fury did not oversee the T.A.H.I.T.I. project. Ward and Garrett infiltrate the Fridge, freeing its prisoners and stealing weapons, including the Berserker Staff, the 0-8-4 from Peru, and the gravitonium. Raina informs Garrett that the hard drive containing all of Skye and Simmons' research is locked and only Skye can access it, prompting Garrett to send Ward to Providence.
19	19	"The Only Light in the Darkness"	Vincent Misiano	Monica Owusu-Breen	April22,2014	6.04
Koenig subjects Coulson's team to a rigorous lie detector test, which Ward narrowly beats to maintain his cover. Coulson takes Fitz, Simmons, and Triplett to stop Marcus Daniels, a superhuman and former Fridge inmate possessing the Darkforce who is obsessed with cellist Audrey Nathan, Coulson's former love interest. After rescuing Nathan, they devise a plan to lure out Daniels. The group overloads him with energy, causing him to explode. Coulson briefly comforts Nathan before withdrawing, as he plans on telling her he is alive some other day. Meanwhile, May leaves the team, tired of Coulson not trusting her. Skye and Koenig hack the NSA to get eyes on the Hydra attack at the Fridge, forcing Ward to murder Koenig to prevent discovery. Skye finds Koenig's body and realizes that Ward is with Hydra. In order to avoid suspicion by Ward, Skye joins him as they steal the Bus before Coulson and the others return to Providence. Later, May is picked up by her mother in Ontario, Canada who helps her look for Maria Hill.
20	20	"Nothing Personal"	Billy Gierhart	Paul Zbyszewski & DJ Doyle	April29,2014	5.95
Fitz finds a message left by Skye informing them that Ward is a member of Hydra. Hill and a Special Forces team led by Talbot arrive at Providence, where Hill tries to convince Coulson's team to surrender themselves. However, upon hearing of Ward's betrayal, Hill decides to aid the team directly in their hunt. Skye leads Ward to the diner where she met Peterson, and secretly tips off the police. She reveals that she knows his secret and escapes, while he fights the police, but she is captured by Deathlok. As Ward tries to fly the Bus away, he is confronted by Hill and Triplett, who stall long enough for Coulson to sneak on board. Coulson frees Skye and they escape. The team retreats to a hotel, where Skye reveals she left a trap in the hard drive. Hill departs for D.C., while May returns and shows Coulson the contents of a flash drive she recovered from his false grave. The file is a video of Coulson himself, who was apparently the head of Project T.A.H.I.T.I., informing Fury that the project must be shut down due to its horrific side effects.
21	21	"Ragtag"	Roxann Dawson	Jeffrey Bell	May6,2014	5.37
In flashbacks, a teenage Ward is seen in juvenile detention where he first meets Garrett, and accepts his offer to join his organization. Over the years, Garrett trains Ward, and eventually tells him about Hydra. In the present, Coulson and May infiltrate Cybertek (who they realize is connected to Centipede and Hydra) and learn that Garrett was the first Deathlok, his implants are failing, and he needs the Guest House drug to survive. The team travels to Havana, Cuba, finding the recently abandoned Hydra base, and Fitz and Simmons find the captured Bus. The latter are caught by Ward and taken aboard the Bus, which departs. Fitz disables Garrett's implants with an EMP, and the dying Garrett orders Ward to kill them. After the two agents lock themselves in the Bus' infirmary, Ward ejects it into the ocean. Raina injects Garrett with her synthesized Guest House drug. Initially it seems to cause an Extremis reaction, but Garrett recovers. Quinn attempts to sell Deathlok soldiers to the military, and invites them to tour Cybertek's facility.
22	22	"Beginning of the End"	David Straiton	Maurissa Tancharoen & Jed Whedon	May13,2014	5.45
At Cybertek, Quinn begins his presentation to U.S. military officials only for Garrett to interrupt and kill one of them. Evading the Centipede soldiers, Coulson and his team attack the Cybertek facility, with Quinn and Raina escaping with the Gravitonium, Skye saving Ace, May defeating Ward, and Coulson confronting Garrett. Fury rescues Fitz and Simmons, though Fitz is barely alive, before joining with Coulson to face Garrett, who is ultimately dispatched by Peterson when he learns that Skye has saved Ace. Peterson, unable to face his son, goes off on his own to redeem himself. Fury expresses his respect for Coulson, who he sees as an Avenger, and appoints him as the new Director of S.H.I.E.L.D., leading the team to a secret base run by Agent Koenig's brother, Billy. Raina delivers a photo of Skye to a mysterious man, telling him she has found his daughter. Later, Coulson awakens in the middle of the night and begins exhibiting signs of the same enhanced mental capacities and fixation that Garrett experienced, compulsively carving strange symbols into a wall.
Close ▲
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
23	1	"Shadows"	Vincent Misiano	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	September23,2014	5.98
In 1945, Agent Peggy Carter and the Strategic Scientific Reserve (S.S.R.) raid the last known Hydra base (led by Werner Reinhardt) and confiscate many items, including the Obelisk and a blue body. In the present, Phil Coulson's team monitors a deal revolving around the Obelisk, which goes awry when Carl Creel kills the ex-S.H.I.E.L.D. agent offering the intel and escapes with it. Agent Skye interrogates Grant Ward and learns that Hydra is using communication channels not monitored by S.H.I.E.L.D. The team realizes that General Glenn Talbot is in trouble and rushes to rescue him from Creel, before abducting Talbot themselves and using him to break into a military facility full of confiscated S.H.I.E.L.D. assets. Agent Isabelle Hartley finds the Obelisk, while Skye and Agent Antoine Triplett steal a cloak-capable quinjet. Lance Hunter leaves with his team of mercenaries enlisted by S.H.I.E.L.D., only to be ambushed by Creel, whose attack kills Hartley. Creel then steals the Obelisk for an apparently un-aged Reinhardt, now going by the name Daniel Whitehall.
24	2	"Heavy Is the Head"	Jesse Bochco	Paul Zbyszewski	September30,2014	5.05
Following Creel's theft of the Obelisk, Hunter is captured by Talbot's men. Creel absorbs the properties of the Obelisk and accidentally kills a waitress in a bar. He later meets Raina, but declines her offer to help him. Talbot tries to persuade Hunter to work for him and sets him free, but Hunter returns to S.H.I.E.L.D. wanting revenge for his fallen friends. Agent Leo Fitz and the mechanic Agent Alphonso Mackenzie are able to build a weapon that can incapacitate Creel. As the team observes Creel making a deal with Whitehall's second-in-command Sunil Bakshi, Hunter disarms the other agents and tries to kill Creel himself. However, Creel easily defeats him. Just as he is about to kill Hunter, Coulson incapacitates Creel with the new weapon. Coulson later asks Hunter to stay and help S.H.I.E.L.D., and then tells Talbot that he is wasting his time tracking S.H.I.E.L.D. and turns Creel over to him. The Obelisk is later shown in the possession of Raina and "The Doctor"—Skye's father—who is asking the former to find his daughter.
25	3	"Making Friends and Influencing People"	Bobby Roth	Monica Owusu-Breen	October7,2014	4.47
Coulson learns from Agent Jemma Simmons, who is working undercover within Hydra, that their next planned target for recruitment is Donnie Gill, and Ward explains to Skye that Hydra brainwashes promising recruits such as Creel. S.H.I.E.L.D. traces Gill to a Hydra ship in Morocco, while Hydra sends Simmons with a team to find Gill themselves, as a test of her loyalty. Fitz reveals to Ward that Gill is the target, and Ward warns that Gill was a Hydra asset already, and that Hydra would try to reactivate his brainwashing. Agent Melinda May, who knows of Simmons' mission, allows her and Gill to escape, to maintain Simmons' cover, and Hydra successfully re-brainwashes Gill. Skye manages to shoot him, and he falls into the water and freezes, but government forces are later unable to locate his body. Whitehall decides to promote Simmons, despite her failure to retrieve Gill, and Ward tells Skye that her father is alive and offers to bring her to him.
26	4	"Face My Enemy"	Kevin Tancharoen	Drew Z. Greenberg	October14,2014	4.70
Coulson and May go undercover to a charity function to get a painting that is carved with alien symbols, and encounter Talbot, who has already claimed it, and asks to meet with Coulson in private. Coulson sends May to scout ahead, and she discovers the brainwashed S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent 33 in Talbot's hotel room, realizing that the Talbot at the party was actually Bakshi in disguise. Bakshi tortures May while Agent 33 disguises herself as May to pick up Coulson and sabotage the Bus. Coulson realizes that "May" is a fake because of inconsistencies in her behavior. He rescues the real May, who defeats Agent 33, while Fitz and Hunter work together to save the Bus from Hydra's computer virus, allowing Fitz to start reintegrating into the team following previous life-changing injuries. Though Bakshi escapes, S.H.I.E.L.D. claims the painting, hiding its survival from the real Talbot. Raina is later confronted by Whitehall, who orders her to deliver the Obelisk to Hydra or face death.
27	5	"A Hen in the Wolf House"	Holly Dale	Brent Fletcher	October21,2014	4.36
Raina begs Skye's father to give her the Obelisk, but he angrily berates her for not delivering Skye, then kills two men who he was performing surgery for. Raina discovers Simmons' cover and attempts to blackmail Coulson: she will not reveal Simmons to Hydra if she can take Skye to her father. Coulson refuses the offer and Simmons' identity is exposed, though Hydra security chief Bobbi Morse, another undercover S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, rescues her. Coulson has Raina tagged so she can lead them to Hydra, and she discloses the location of Skye's father. At his abandoned hideout, the team finds the bodies of the men he murdered, and he realizes, watching through hidden cameras, that Skye thinks he is a monster. Coulson later shows Skye alien symbols he has been compulsively carving, which she believes are a map. Fitz and Simmons are reunited while Morse, who is Hunter's ex-wife, joins the team. Skye's father delivers the Obelisk to Whitehall himself and offers to join forces with Hydra.
28	6	"A Fractured House"	Ron Underwood	Rafe Judkins & Lauren LeFranc	October28,2014	4.44
During a United Nations meeting on S.H.I.E.L.D., Hydra agents posing as S.H.I.E.L.D. operatives attack and kill several world representatives. Senator Christian Ward, the brother of Grant Ward, decides to use this incident to propose a multinational anti-S.H.I.E.L.D. initiative. As Coulson meets Christian to propose a win-win solution, Skye interrogates Grant about Christian. Grant explains to Skye that Christian is a master manipulator, Christian tells Coulson that this is a lie, with both S.H.I.E.L.D. agents attempting to ascertain which Ward brother is being truthful. Christian and Coulson agree to abandon the anti-S.H.I.E.L.D. proposal in exchange for Grant's transfer to Christian to stand trial, but Grant escapes while being transferred. May leads a team against the Hydra agents who attacked the UN, capturing several agents, and turning them over to Talbot, who begins to agree with Coulson's mission and offers his condolences for fallen S.H.I.E.L.D. agents.
29	7	"The Writing on the Wall"	Vincent Misiano	Craig Titley	November11,2014	4.27
Since being resurrected by S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Project T.A.H.I.T.I. using the experimental drug GH-325 (derived from the alien corpse Carter discovered in Whitehall's possession), Coulson has been compulsively carving the alien symbols. When a former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent and patient of T.A.H.I.T.I. is killed and her body carved with the symbols (by the former agent who had carved the painting previously), Coulson uses Hydra's memory machine to find other patients who were injected with the drug. He goes after the remaining patients, trying to find an end to the madness. He discovers that the writing is actually a 3D diagram of a city where the alien host of GH-325 apparently wished to go. Seeing the completed design ends his need to carve, but since Hydra is also searching for the city, he makes it a priority for S.H.I.E.L.D. to find it first. Meanwhile, the other members of the team try to capture Ward, who betrays Hydra by capturing Bakshi and leaving him for S.H.I.E.L.D., before preparing to meet his brother.
30	8	"The Things We Bury"	Milan Cheylov	DJ Doyle	November18,2014	4.58
Bakshi accidentally reveals to Morse that Whitehall is actually Reinhardt, a Nazi scientist who was working on the Obelisk before being captured by the S.S.R. and imprisoned for life by Carter in 1945. In 1989, Reinhardt was released from prison by Alexander Pierce, to find that a woman he had found in 1945 was still the same age. Dissecting her, Reinhardt discovered the secret to her immortality, and used it to make himself 44 years younger. "The Doctor" finds the remains of the woman, who was his wife, and vows vengeance against Whitehall, who he is now pretending to be allied with. Grant Ward also appears to join in an alliance with Whitehall, after having tortured Christian into confessing past sins, and then apparently murdering him and their parents. S.H.I.E.L.D. hacks a United States Air Force mapping satellite and use it to find the hidden city, and Coulson meets "The Doctor", who knows that the Obelisk (or the Diviner) is a key that must be taken to the city by someone it deems to be worthy.
31	9	"...Ye Who Enter Here"	Billy Gierhart	Paul Zbyszewski	December2,2014	5.36
The team splits up, with Coulson and Morse leading a group to begin searching for the hidden city under San Juan, Puerto Rico, and May, Skye, and Hunter leaving to help Agents Sam and Billy Koenig rescue Raina from a Hydra kidnapping attempt in Vancouver. Raina tells Skye that they are two of the "worthy ones" who could enter the temple in the city, and that any others who try will die. She also reveals that the city and Diviner were created by the Kree. Skye tries to warn the main team, but Whitehall blocks their communications, and Ward boards the Bus to take Raina. He also takes Skye, promising to take her to her father, and in exchange agrees to let the others go. Mack has already entered the city, which causes him great pain and compels him to attack the others, until he is subdued by Morse and falls down a deep shaft. Whitehall, surprised to learn that Ward took Skye and did not destroy the Bus as ordered, gives Agent 33 (who still has May's face, but is now disfigured) orders to do so.
32	10	"What They Become"	Michael Zinberg	Jeffrey Bell	December9,2014	5.29
May evades Hydra's attempt to shoot down the Bus. Ward brings Skye to meet her father, Cal, who explains that her name is Daisy, and that Whitehall killed her mother. Arriving at the Hydra base in San Juan where they are drilling into the temple, Whitehall immobilizes Cal and menaces Skye, but is interrupted as Coulson's team assaults the base. Coulson kills Whitehall, taking Cal's chance of vengeance, leading the latter to attack Coulson. Skye shoots Ward and forces Cal to leave, before following Raina and the Diviner into the temple. Agent 33 assists Ward in escaping. Coulson and Triplett race to the temple, with Triplett making it in and Coulson being delayed by Mack, who soon after breaks from the city's control when the temple closes itself and the Diviner opens, revealing a large crystal. Skye and Raina are encased in cocoons, while Triplett is killed by the Diviner. Skye erupts out of her cocoon as an earthquake shakes the city. Elsewhere, another Diviner reveals to a man with no eyes that "there's someone new".
33	11	"Aftershocks"	Billy Gierhart	Maurissa Tancharoen & Jed Whedon	March3,2015	4.48
In the wake of Triplett's death, Coulson looks to hit back at Hydra, who are considering having Bakshi fill Whitehall's leadership position. S.H.I.E.L.D. enacts a plan that sees Bakshi escaping and leading them to other high-ranking Hydra agents, who are then killed. In San Juan, the alien city is flooded, but not before a transformed Raina escapes, now with a monstrous appearance. When Cal turns his back on her, reminding her that she got what she wanted, Raina attempts to commit suicide, but she is taken by the man with no eyes, Gordon, who can teleport. Fitz and Skye realize that the latter has also been transformed—she caused the earthquake in San Juan, but has no control over this ability. Fitz agrees to keep her secret and hides the truth from the rest of the team. Meanwhile, a model car that Mack built for Coulson scans the latter's office and finds the "toolbox" that previous S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Nick Fury gave to him. Mack, who has been studying the S.H.I.E.L.D. base's schematics, secretly reports this to Morse.
34	12	"Who You Really Are"	Roxann Dawson	Drew Z. Greenberg	March10,2015	3.80
S.H.I.E.L.D. is called in to help an amnesiac Sif, who was last seen fighting an incredibly strong man, and is searching for something called "Kava", which they soon discover is the location where Whitehall had found the Diviner. There they capture the man, who restores Sif's memories and introduces himself as a Kree named Vin-Tak who has come to destroy all the Diviners, and kill anyone affected by the Terrigen crystals inside. When Skye's abilities are revealed, Sif and Vin-Tak attempt to capture and kill her, respectively, but Morse wipes Vin-Tak's memories using his weapon, while Coulson convinces Sif to leave Skye be. Sif returns Vin-Tak to his planet, warning Coulson that the Kree should no longer be a problem, but Skye may be a greater danger than he realizes. Meanwhile, Morse tries to end her rekindled relationship with Hunter when Mack warns her that he is getting too close, but Hunter angrily confronts Mack about this and his suspicions that Mack and Morse are hiding something, forcing Mack to knock him unconscious.
35	13	"One of Us"	Kevin Tancharoen	Monica Owusu-Breen	March17,2015	4.34
Cal recruits dangerous individuals from S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Gifted Index to settle his vendetta. Coulson and Morse investigate, and are led to the former's hometown of Manitowoc, Wisconsin, where the criminals have seized the local school stadium. May enlists Dr. Andrew Garner, her ex-husband and a psychoanalyst, to work with Skye, who is now on the Index herself. During one of Garner's talks with Skye, Coulson requests back-up, prompting May to fly the Bus to Manitowoc, with Garner and Skye on board. At the stadium, Coulson is confronted by Cal, while May arrives, bluffing to kill Skye. During the stand-off, Gordon appears and teleports away with Cal. As Coulson's team subdue Cal's group, Skye starts causing tremors, only stopping this by directing her abilities inward, causing hairline fractures throughout her body. Elsewhere, Mack hides Hunter in a safe house until they are extracted by an organization that Mack calls "the real S.H.I.E.L.D.", and Gordon takes Cal to his superiors, belittling him for using science to increase his strength.
36	14	"Love in the Time of Hydra"	Jesse Bochco	Brent Fletcher	March24,2015	4.29
On Garner's recommendation Coulson pulls Skye from active duty, and leaves her at a safe house with gloves designed to help repress her abilities, asking her to take some time to learn to control her powers. Ward and Agent 33 hunt down the man who created the technology that allowed Agent 33 to take on May's appearance. He fixes her mask so she can once more change her appearance to anyone she wishes. Using this, they infiltrate Talbot's base and break out Bakshi, who S.H.I.E.L.D. had handed over as a sign of good faith. From Bakshi they learn about Agent 33's life before he brainwashed her, including her name, Kara Palamas, before brainwashing him themselves. Mack introduces Hunter to Robert Gonzales and the leadership of the "real S.H.I.E.L.D.", founded on the ideal of transparency rather than Fury's mantra of compartmentalization. They see Coulson and his erratic behavior as a threat, and when Hunter escapes they decide to attack Coulson's group immediately.
37	15	"One Door Closes"	David Solomon	Lauren LeFranc & Rafe Judkins	March31,2015	4.26
Gordon visits Skye to tell her of his home, where she can be safe and learn to control her powers without S.H.I.E.L.D.'s gloves. Coulson confronts Mack about the model car and his behavior, deducing that he is a mole. Morse steals the toolbox from Coulson's office and takes over the base's systems, allowing her and Mack to evade capture, and the rest of their faction to attack. This organization was formed after the Hydra Uprising and the fall of S.H.I.E.L.D. when Morse, Gonzales, Mack, and Hartley disobeyed Fury's orders, saving hundreds of loyal S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Gonzales realized all the harm caused by Fury and his secrets, and now wants S.H.I.E.L.D. to exist without them. He and his colleagues fear potential alien and superhuman phenomena that could endanger the rest of the world, including Skye, but when they try to detain Skye, she accidentally unleashes her abilities. Horrified at what she can do, Skye agrees to go with Gordon. May helps Coulson escape from Gonzales, and Coulson soon finds Hunter, who agrees to become a permanent agent.
38	16	"Afterlife"	Kevin Hooks	Craig Titley	April7,2015	4.24
Gordon takes Skye to Afterlife, a haven, where Lincoln Campbell explains to her that most people who are transformed are chosen and prepared for it, and then a guide is selected to help these people master their new abilities. Skye's guide is the founder of Afterlife, Jiaying, while Gordon will guide Raina, who still wants to die. When Gonzales asks Fitz and Simmons to help them open Fury's toolbox, Fitz refuses and decides to leave S.H.I.E.L.D., while Simmons agrees to help, though this is a ruse so that Fitz can take the toolbox with him. Coulson and Hunter steal a quinjet from Gonzales' agents with the help of Agent Mike Peterson, who has been hunting Hydra scientist Dr. List, and found him experimenting on gifted people. With the appearance of Peterson, Gonzales fears how many super powered operatives Coulson has, but believes that he still deserves fair representation, and so asks May to serve on their S.H.I.E.L.D. board. Coulson realizes that to deal with the new Hydra threat, he will have to turn to Grant Ward.
39	17	"Melinda"	Garry A. Brown	DJ Doyle	April14,2015	4.04
Now in charge of Coulson's base, May agrees to look into his actions since he became Director, finding that Coulson has been secretly building another base and consulting with Garner, which Mack believes is because he is creating a gifted army. Skye is training with Jiaying, and begins to focus her abilities to manipulate objects' natural frequencies. Jiaying soon reveals that she is Skye's mother—Cal had pieced her back together, her healing factor revived her, and they searched for Skye, who S.H.I.E.L.D. had taken, until Jiaying realized what monsters they had become, and left Cal to build a new and peaceful life. Their relationship must remain a secret because once a member of their group stole Terrigen crystals for her daughter, who then forced her mother to hurt others to feed on their pain. They were stopped when May killed them both, scarring her for life. However, Jiaying and Skye do agree to join Cal for dinner, a moment that Raina apparently foresaw in a dream. Fitz opens the toolbox, and uses it to contact Coulson.
40	18	"The Frenemy of My Enemy"	Karen Gaviola	Monica Owusu-Breen & Paul Zbyszewski	April21,2015	4.45
Coulson, Hunter, Fitz, and Peterson capture Ward and Palamas and make a deal to infiltrate Hydra in exchange for giving Ward a clean slate by wiping his memories. Ward uses the brainwashed Bakshi, along with Peterson, to get close to List, and they learn that he has been tracking Gordon and seeks to capture him. Jiaying intends to banish Cal from Afterlife, but Skye fears he may harm innocents, and so goes with him, before calling May for help. Simmons hacks into Peterson's cybernetic eye, and through his video feed S.H.I.E.L.D. discovers that Coulson is working with Ward. May sends Bobbi and Mack. As Cal is enjoying spending time with Skye, they discover that Lincoln is spying on them, and Cal realizes Jiaying's plans. Hydra tracks Gordon's movements to Cal's office, and attack before Cal can do anything about Lincoln. Hydra captures Peterson and Lincoln. Skye is almost reunited with Coulson, but Gordon takes her and Cal away. When Bobbi and Mack arrive, Coulson surrenders to them.
41	19	"The Dirty Half Dozen"	Kevin Tancharoen	Brent Fletcher & Drew Z. Greenberg	April28,2015	4.57
Coulson offers to take his own team to infiltrate List's base and free Peterson and Lincoln. Raina foresees Skye saving Lincoln's life, and they convince Gordon to take her to S.H.I.E.L.D. without telling Jiaying, who allows Cal to stay in Afterlife (though he does accidentally reveal to the community that Skye is their daughter). Coulson, May, Skye, Fitz, Simmons, and Ward infiltrate the Hydra base with the help of Bakshi on the inside. Simmons and Ward save Peterson, but Simmons attempts to kill Ward for all that he has done to them. Bakshi sacrifices himself to save Ward, who decides to leave by himself. Skye does save Lincoln, while Coulson discovers the base of Hydra's leader, Baron Wolfgang von Strucker. He gives the location to Maria Hill so that the Avengers can defeat Hydra. Ward leaves Palamas with S.H.I.E.L.D., hoping that she can reclaim her lost life as an agent, while Raina, who is beginning to question Jiaying's leadership, foresees metal men destroying cities.
42	20	"Scars"	Bobby Roth	Rafe Judkins & Lauren LeFranc	May5,2015	4.45
The S.H.I.E.L.D. board is grateful to Coulson after Fury uses Coulson's secret helicarrier to save lives during the Battle of Sokovia, and they agree to merge their factions, with Coulson remaining as director, and the board acting as his oversight and advisory council. Raina has a vision of an ancient Kree weapon, designed to destroy the Inhumans—those who were altered by the Kree. Gordon takes her to search for it, finding it in the cargo hold of Gonzales' ship. S.H.I.E.L.D. discovers the intruders, and uses Hydra technology to track them when they teleport away, learning the location of Afterlife. Palamas reveals Ward's true plan when she helps him kidnap Morse. Gonzales leads a delegation to Afterlife to meet Jiaying and index the community. Raina foresees war if Jiaying meets with S.H.I.E.L.D., but it is implied that she is lying in order to seize power. When Jiaying and Gonzales meet, she delivers Cal into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody, before killing Gonzales and shooting herself to start a war with S.H.I.E.L.D., rather than letting her people be indexed.
43	21	"S.O.S."	Vincent Misiano	Jeffrey Bell	May12,2015	3.88
44	22	Billy Gierhart	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen
S.H.I.E.L.D. quickly realizes Jiaying's ruse, but the people of Afterlife, including Skye, fall for it, and agree to fight alongside her. Ward tortures Morse, wanting her to confess to the fact that she had revealed Palamas' location to Hydra while undercover there. Realizing that Morse is confident in her actions, Ward sets a trap that will end with a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, presumably Hunter, being killed in front of her. As part of Jiaying's plan, Cal takes a serum that he created to give himself Inhuman strength. However, it is also killing him, and Coulson helps him see the truth: Jiaying is the true monster, and ever since Cal had pieced her back together she had been convincing him to do terrible things, including bringing her humans, whose life she absorbs in order to heal and remain young. After failing to convince Skye that Jiaying is dangerous, Raina confronts Jiaying, who kills her. Seeing this, Skye turns her back on Jiaying.

Morse takes the bullet meant for Hunter, barely surviving, while Ward accidentally kills Palamas while she is disguised as May. The Inhumans take Skye prisoner and attack the S.H.I.E.L.D. ship, planning to use artificial Terrigen crystals (laced with Diviner metal) to reveal all Inhumans and kill all humans. Mack frees Skye, who warns Coulson of Jiaying's plan; Coulson, Fitz, and Cal infiltrate the ship. Fitz kills Gordon, preventing him from unleashing Terrigen mist through the ship's ventilation. However, Coulson loses a hand when he stops one of the crystals from shattering. Skye confronts Jiaying, who is attempting to spread more crystals around the world with a Quinjet. When Skye pushes the plane into the ocean, Jiaying begins draining her life, until Cal kills Jiaying. S.H.I.E.L.D. later wipes Cal's memories, allowing him to live a new life in peace, while Skye joins a new S.H.I.E.L.D. team of gifted people, May takes a break from S.H.I.E.L.D. with Garner, and Ward plans to lead the remains of Hydra against S.H.I.E.L.D. As traces of the crystals from the ocean make their way around the world, the Kree weapon, known as the Monolith, absorbs Simmons.
Close ▲
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
45	1	"Laws of Nature"	Vincent Misiano	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	September29,2015	4.90
After developing metal-bending abilities, Joey Gutierrez is saved from the hostile Advanced Threat Containment Unit (ATCU)—President Matthew Ellis's replacement for the underground S.H.I.E.L.D.—by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. When Agent Daisy Johnson struggles to explain to Gutierrez their Inhuman heritage, activated by exposure to the recently released compound Terrigen, she seeks the help of Lincoln Campbell, who taught her but now wants to live a normal life. S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Phil Coulson finds the leader of the ATCU, Rosalind Price, and the two realize that there is a third party interested in new Inhumans: the monstrous Inhuman Lash, who attacks Daisy and Campbell. The subsequent arrival of the ATCU causes both Lash and Campbell to flee; the organization begins hunting them. Agent Leo Fitz acquires an ancient Hebrew scroll describing the Kree Monolith—that consumed his partner Jemma Simmons—as "Death" (Hebrew: מות), which Fitz is unable to accept. Simmons, meanwhile, is on a desolate alien planet.
46	2	"Purpose in the Machine"	Kevin Tancharoen	DJ Doyle	October6,2015	4.32
Dr. Andrew Garner evaluates Gutierrez and deems him not yet ready to join the Secret Warriors, Daisy's potential team of Inhumans. Grant Ward, looking to rebuild Hydra, recruits Werner von Strucker, son of previous leader Baron Wolfgang von Strucker. Tasked with hunting down and killing Ward, Agent Lance Hunter tracks down Garner's ex-wife Agent Melinda May, who has been on leave from S.H.I.E.L.D. for six months. May is convinced not to run from her life despite difficulties in her relationships with Garner and Coulson, and eventually agrees to join Hunter in his mission. Fitz realizes that the Monolith is a portal, and S.H.I.E.L.D. enlists Asgardian Elliot Randolph. Randolph takes them to an old English castle where a now-deteriorated machine was constructed to open the Monolith using vibrations. Daisy is able to replicate this effect with her abilities and Fitz sends a flare through, before entering the portal himself. He finds Simmons and is able to bring her back just as Daisy's power destroys the Monolith.
47	3	"A Wanted (Inhu)man"	Garry A. Brown	Monica Owusu-Breen	October13,2015	3.74
The ATCU closes in on Campbell, who is betrayed by an old friend when the ATCU asks for public help in capturing the "alien". He calls Daisy for help. Coulson meets with Price, asking her to let S.H.I.E.L.D. take Campbell instead, but realizes that they know of Daisy too, and that to keep her safe he must let the ATCU take Campbell. Unaware of this, Daisy finds Campbell, but is followed by the ATCU. Campbell attacks them and escapes, so they try to take Daisy instead. To save her, Coulson agrees to work with Price to capture the Inhumans together. Hunter and May meet with a contact Hunter has in Hydra, who takes them to the new initiation system: Hunter must fight to the death to prove himself worthy of Hydra. Hunter fights his contact, kills him, and is accepted into Hydra's ranks. Fitz attempts to help Simmons acclimatize to her old life, but she is struggling with both the different physics of Earth, and mental trauma. Later, Agent Bobbi Morse finds Simmons wanting to reopen the portal and return to the planet.
48	4	"Devils You Know"	Ron Underwood	Paul Zbyszewski	October20,2015	3.85
Daisy discovers an encoded email at the scene of a Lash attack and traces it to Dwight Frye, an Inhuman who is negatively affected by the presence of other Inhumans that Lash has been using to find targets. May visits S.H.I.E.L.D. to warn Coulson that Hunter's mission is becoming too personal and reckless, but refuses to talk to Garner, who had left her while they were trying to rekindle their relationship. The ATCU takes Frye, with Daisy and Agent Alphonso Mackenzie allowed to go with them to see their base and Inhuman facilities. However, Lash ambushes their van, kills Frye, and injures Mack, but spares Daisy, who witnesses him transforming into an ordinary human afterward. Hunter is brought in on a mission with Hydra, but is seen by Ward and attacks him. May arrives to help, but Ward reveals Strucker is prepared to kill Garner unless Hunter and May allow him to escape. May, unable to sacrifice Garner, is willing to back off, but Hunter attacks Ward, shooting him in the shoulder as he flees. In retaliation, Strucker seemingly kills Garner.
49	5	"4,722 Hours"	Jesse Bochco	Craig Titley	October27,2015	3.81
Simmons agrees to tell Fitz of her six months on the planet. After being dragged through the portal, she found herself on an apparently sun-less, deserted planet, where she came across a pool of water and an alien life form inhabiting it, allowing her to sustain herself until she met stranded astronaut Will Daniels. Daniels had traveled through the portal with a team of scientists in 2001, when the monolith was in the possession of NASA, but over time they had been driven mad by the planet and an evil entity upon it, each eventually dying. Simmons realized that the opening of the portal can be predicted by studying the stars and alignment of the planet's moons, and over months they were able to anticipate the next opening of the portal. When they missed it, Simmons lost hope, but found solace with Daniels and fell in love with him. When they saw Fitz's flare, Simmons was able to make it to him while Daniels distracted the entity. Now, Simmons wants to reopen the portal so they can return to save Daniels, which Fitz agrees to help with.
50	6	"Among Us Hide..."	Dwight Little	Drew Z. Greenberg	November3,2015	3.84
S.H.I.E.L.D. finds Garner alive after Strucker fled the scene. Hunter is replaced by Morse on the Ward mission; she and May begin tracking Strucker. Since Daisy and Mack never made it to the ATCU facility, Coulson visits it himself, while Daisy, Mack, and Hunter believe that Price's right-hand man, Luther Banks, may be Lash. They find Banks, knock him out, take some of his blood, and sneak a camera into the facility to which he was headed. As an analysis proves that Banks is not an Inhuman, they realize that they are at the ATCU facility and witness Coulson seeing a captured Inhuman arrive in suspended animation. Price tells Coulson that she wants to 'cure' the Inhumans because she could not help her husband, who died of cancer. May and Morse trace Strucker to the apartment of Gideon Malick, with whom Strucker sought sanctuary. Malick, instead, turned him over to Hydra in exchange for a future favor. As Morse fights off the Hydra members, Strucker tells May that Garner survived his attack because Garner is Lash.
51	7	"Chaos Theory"	David Solomon	Lauren LeFranc	November10,2015	3.49
May confronts Garner, who explains that, while researching for S.H.I.E.L.D., he opened a ledger of known Inhumans belonging to Daisy's late mother which was booby trapped to release Terrigen on its reader. Inhuman abilities within Garner were unlocked and, when Garner was subsequently drawn to an 'unworthy' Inhuman, transformed into Lash, and killed him, Garner broke things off with May. Coulson joins Price for a meeting with the President about the outbreak of enhanced people, but is interrupted en route by Campbell, who has deduced that Lash must have access to the ledger. S.H.I.E.L.D. and the ATCU track down Garner and May, the latter being held hostage, and Coulson tries to talk down Garner. Garner's Lash instincts want him to kill Campbell and, after the latter attacks Lash, only May is able to calm him down and return him to his human form. Campbell warns that the Lash form will soon be permanent, so May has the ATCU put Garner in stasis until their cure is complete. Coulson then spends the night with Price.
52	8	"Many Heads, One Tale"	Garry A. Brown	Jed Whedon & DJ Doyle	November17,2015	3.60
Malick knows that Ward wants access to one of von Strucker's vaults—said to contain the true power of Hydra, which he wishes to use to kill Coulson—so he sends men to kill Ward. Ward defeats them and tortures the vault's location from them. Hunter and Morse enter the ATCU, disguised as FBI agents investigating a security breach triggered by Garner's containment module. Morse discovers that the ATCU is keeping the Inhumans offsite, and is trying to make more instead of curing them. Coulson confronts Price, but she was unaware of this because her long-time business partner, Malick, had been running that side. Ward breaks into the vault and is confronted by an impressed Malick. As Fitz and Simmons realize that Daniels was sent through the portal by Hydra as a sacrifice to the entity, Malick explains to Ward that it is an ancient Inhuman, Hive (from Latin: Alveus), who was banished through the portal, and Hydra was founded to return it to Earth. If Ward helps Hydra with this, then Malick will help Ward take down S.H.I.E.L.D.
53	9	"Closure"	Kate Woods	Brent Fletcher	December1,2015	3.84
At dinner with Coulson, Price reveals plans to confront Malick, before being abruptly sniped by Ward and dying in Coulson's arms. Promoting Mack to interim director of S.H.I.E.L.D., Coulson sets out for revenge, and goes off-book with Hunter and Morse to kidnap Ward's younger brother, Thomas. Fitz and Simmons go with Banks to investigate the ATCU, but Banks is killed and the two are captured by Hydra. Simmons is tortured until Fitz agrees to help Hydra return Hive to Earth, while Coulson uses a phone call between the Ward brothers, where Grant attempts to justify himself and his past actions to Thomas, to locate Hydra: they have set up base at the English castle. Mack clears Gutierrez and Campbell for field duty and mobilizes the rest of S.H.I.E.L.D. for a rescue mission. Hydra reopens the portal, and Malick convinces Ward to lead Hydra through it with Fitz and return with Hive, promising that Coulson will die when they return. Determined to kill Ward, Coulson manages to enter the portal as well.
54	10	"Maveth"	Vincent Misiano	Jeffrey Bell	December8,2015	3.85
Fitz finds Daniels and convinces Ward that they will need him to find the exit point. Mack sends May and the Secret Warriors (Daisy, Campbell, and Gutierrez) to find Simmons while he, Morse, and Hunter infiltrate the castle and secure the portal room. Simmons escapes herself after Campbell shuts down Hydra's power, and discovers several Inhumans that Malick has gathered as an army, including Garner. Simmons agrees to unleash Lash on Hydra before making her way to the others. Fitz and Daniels lead Ward to the ruins of an ancient civilization where they manage to get away, while Coulson catches up to Ward and overpowers him, forcing him to follow them. At the exit, Daniels attacks Fitz: Hive had killed Daniels as Simmons escaped, and now inhabits his body. Ward attacks Coulson when he is distracted by Fitz, but Coulson uses his prosthetic hand to kill Ward, while Fitz uses a flare to destroy Daniels' body. Fitz and Coulson return to Earth, but Hive secretly does as well, now inhabiting Ward's body.
55	11	"Bouncing Back"	Ron Underwood	Monica Owusu-Breen	March8,2016	3.52
S.H.I.E.L.D. agents arrive in Bogotá to investigate an Inhuman who stole weapons from the police. The woman, Elena Rodriguez, is apprehended despite her super speed (with the limitation of returning to where she began moving from after one heartbeat) and reveals that she was destroying the weapons to prevent their misuse by corrupt police officers. Coulson uses the machine that restored his memories on Strucker—who is in a vegetative state following brutal treatment by Malick's men—and discovers where he contacted Malick. Coulson uses the phone there to find many of Malick's facilities, which are promptly shut down by Malick. The police kidnap Morse and Hunter using their own Inhuman, Lucio, who can temporarily petrify anyone using eye contact. Rodriguez aids S.H.I.E.L.D. in rescuing the pair, and though Lucio is captured by Hydra, Rodriguez agrees to join the Secret Warriors; she remains in Colombia, on call. Ellis informs Coulson that the new head of the ATCU will be Glenn Talbot, who will report directly to Coulson.
56	12	"The Inside Man"	John Terlesky	Craig Titley	March15,2016	2.94
Talbot and Coulson meet with delegates from several countries to discuss Inhumans, accompanied by Carl Creel—a human who survived terrigenesis thanks to Hydra experimentation and whose blood Simmons believes could be used to "cure" Inhumans who have not yet transitioned. Coulson suspects that one of the delegates is an inside man for Malick and sends Hunter, Morse, and May to find out who it is. Hunter, seeing Creel acting suspiciously, discovers Talbot's son in ATCU stasis. They also discover that the Australian government has captured an Inhuman, Eden Fesi, for experimentation. Talbot turns on Coulson when Malick arrives, the latter convincing the delegates that Coulson is Hydra and that they should carry out their plans—the building of an Inhuman sanctuary—with Malick instead. May saves Talbot's son, allowing him to leave with Coulson without fear for his family. Hunter and Morse follow Malick to Russia, S.H.I.E.L.D. agents rescue Fesi, and Hive restores Ward's corpse to full strength by sacrificing several humans.
57	13	"Parting Shot"	Michael Zinberg	Paul Zbyszewski	March22,2016	2.88
Hunter and Morse follow Malick to a decommissioned facility in Siberia, where Russian delegate Anton Petrov wishes to build the sanctuary against the wishes of Russian Prime Minister Dimitri Olshenko. Olshenko sends his attaché to shut down the operation, but he is murdered by General Androvich, an opposition minister and Inhuman whose shadow is made of sentient darkforce. Malick suggests that the Prime Minister be invited to the facility himself and that Androvich be unleashed upon him. Hunter kills Petrov to protect Olshenko, while Morse kills Androvich to destroy his shadow. Olshenko, unaware of the attempt on his life, has the two arrested. Their Interpol interrogator threatens to turn them over to the Russians for execution unless they confirm that S.H.I.E.L.D. still exists, but Morse and Hunter refuse. Ellis intervenes with Coulson; they save the pair's lives on the condition that they never work for the U.S. government again. With the option of working in secret out of the field, Morse and Hunter instead choose to leave S.H.I.E.L.D.
58	14	"Watchdogs"	Jesse Bochco	Drew Z. Greenberg	March29,2016	3.20
Mack, struggling with the departure of Morse and Hunter, takes time off to be with his brother Ruben. When an online hate group called the Watchdogs uses Howard Stark-developed nitramene bombs to perform a terrorist attack on an ATCU facility, Coulson suspects that former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Felix Blake—who had been committed to the advancement of nitramene technology and has been missing since having his back broken by Deathlok—has taken over the group. Ruben becomes disillusioned with Mack when he leaves to investigate a Watchdog base and accidentally reveals his S.H.I.E.L.D. agent status, but Mack is able to improve their relationship when he fends off a group of the terrorists that attack the brothers. Coulson takes Campbell to search Blake's known safe houses, and the two are confronted by Blake in one via hologram; he reveals that Hydra is backing him and the Watchdogs in their crusade to kill all Inhumans, and S.H.I.E.L.D. realizes that the attack was a cover for Hydra to steal something from the ATCU.
59	15	"Spacetime"	Kevin Tancharoen	Maurissa Tancharoen & Jed Whedon	April5,2016	2.81
S.H.I.E.L.D. picks up an emergency call about Daisy, and finds the caller, who was shown a vision of his death by the Inhuman Charles Hinton, in time for him to learn Daisy's name before being murdered by Hydra, who capture Hinton. Daisy is able to touch Hinton first, giving her a vision of his death. Hive promises to reward Malick with "true power" for sending Ward through the portal; they use Hinton to obtain a powerful exoskeleton from a private corporation. Desperate to prove that fate is not fixed, S.H.I.E.L.D. seeks to stop Daisy's vision from playing out by sending May to find Hinton instead of Daisy, as the vision showed, but at the last minute Garner arrives, stating that he wants to say goodbye to May before he transforms into Lash for good. Subsequently, Daisy goes to the corporation, where S.H.I.E.L.D. has tracked Hydra and Hinton, and faces Malick and his exoskeleton. Hinton saves Daisy by distracting Malick, giving them both visions—hers of a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent dying in space—before dying himself.
60	16	"Paradise Lost"	Wendey Stanzler	George Kitson & Sharla Oliver	April12,2016	3.01
Malick's father died in 1970, leaving him and his brother Nathaniel to lead the "religious" side of Hydra, including periodically sending a sacrificial "traveler"—chosen at random from Hydra's inner circle—through the portal for Hive to inhabit until his return. Discovering that their father used a trick to never be chosen as the traveler, Gideon does the same and Nathaniel is chosen. In the present, Gideon tells his daughter Stephanie of his vision: he believes he saw his own death at the hands of Hive. Daisy and Campbell track down J. T. James, an untransitioned Inhuman with knowledge of Hive who gives them an ancient Kree device. The rest of S.H.I.E.L.D. captures Giyera, Gideon's right-hand man who is now loyal to Hive; a telekinetic Inhuman, Giyera takes control of their plane and directs it to a Hydra base with most of S.H.I.E.L.D. as his prisoners. Hive comes to the Malicks' house and reveals to Gideon that he has Nathaniel's memories. As punishment for Gideon's betrayal of Nathaniel, Hive murders Stephanie in front of him.
61	17	"The Team"	Elodie Keene	DJ Doyle	April19,2016	2.85
Daisy and Campbell unite with Gutierrez and Rodriguez as the Secret Warriors and infiltrate the Hydra base to free S.H.I.E.L.D. Gutierrez kills Lucio in the process, while Campbell captures Malick. During questioning, Malick explains to Coulson that Hive can infect the minds of Inhumans, warning him against trusting any of the Secret Warriors. Simmons confirms from an autopsy of Lucio that Hive parasites infected his brain, and the same could have happened to any of the Secret Warriors. When Malick is found dead, the human agents trap the Inhumans in quarantine and search their belongings. They discover the Kree device in Campbell's possession rather than in asset lockup; Campbell protests, but the other three are released. That night, Daisy visits Campbell and offers to break him out. Campbell refuses when he realizes that Hive is controlling Daisy, and used her to murder Malick and frame Campbell. Daisy leaves on her own, creating an earthquake to destroy the S.H.I.E.L.D. base with everyone inside.
62	18	"The Singularity"	Garry A. Brown	Lauren LeFranc	April26,2016	3.22
Escaping the base mostly unharmed, S.H.I.E.L.D. know that Daisy could have killed them all, and believe there is hope of freeing her from Hive. Fitz and Simmons seek out transhumanist Holden Radcliffe, who believes in the improvement of humanity through enhancement, and whose studies of parasites could help with counteracting Hive's abilities. Hive turns Alisha Whitley (a duplicating Inhuman ally of S.H.I.E.L.D.) and James (after first giving him terrigen which allows him to imbue objects with fire) to his cause, and takes this fledgling army to interrupt Fitz and Simmons: Daisy warns Fitz of her vision; Hive's memories of Daniels petition Simmons to move on with her romantic life; and the others kidnap Radcliffe, taking him to a town that Hive bought with Malick's remaining fortune, where he intends to recreate the original Kree experiments that made the first Inhumans. Talbot and the ATCU use Malick's final intel to completely dismantle Hydra's remaining infrastructure, and Fitz and Simmons finally consummate their relationship.
63	19	"Failed Experiments"	Wendey Stanzler	Brent Fletcher	May3,2016	2.92
Radcliffe's first attempt to turn humans into Inhumans fails, as he requires Kree blood. Fitz and Simmons attempt to combine their potential Inhuman cure with what they know of Radcliffe's research, but require an Inhuman test subject; Campbell volunteers himself, severely compromising his immune system and seemingly proving that the cure cannot free the Inhumans of Hive's connection. S.H.I.E.L.D. locates Hive's town and Mack and May lead a team to hopefully free the others by simply killing Hive. The latter activates the Kree artifact, a beacon which calls two Kree reapers to the town. They promptly murder Whitley. Daisy and Hive each confront a reaper, with Daisy managing to begin harvesting hers' blood until the process is sabotaged by Mack. Hive, not realizing this, destroys the other reaper. Daisy attacks Mack, nearly killing him, but is interrupted by May, who helps Mack retreat with the rest of their team. Daisy then offers her own blood as an alternative for Radcliffe's experiment, as it was recently infused with Kree blood.
64	20	"Emancipation"	Vincent Misiano	Craig Titley	May10,2016	2.93
Following the signing of the Sokovia Accords, Talbot and Coulson discuss registering the Inhuman agents, with Coulson taking Talbot to the S.H.I.E.L.D. base to introduce him to Rodriguez and Lash, explain the Hive situation, and show him the need to keep the Secret Warriors anonymous. Hive captures several Watchdogs for Radcliffe's next experiment attempt; they are horrifically mutated into primitive Inhumans, but do fall under Hive's sway, prompting him to proceed with his ultimate plan—to use a warhead (which was stolen from the ATCU) to spread Radcliffe's new pathogen around the world and transform all humans into these primitives. Campbell contacts Daisy and convinces her that he wants to be with her. Hacking into S.H.I.E.L.D.'s systems as her blood is drained, Daisy helps him escape the S.H.I.E.L.D. base in a quinjet. However, this was a ruse on S.H.I.E.L.D.'s part, with Lash arriving instead of Campbell. Lash uses his abilities to free Daisy from Hive's sway, but is killed by James. Daisy escapes back to S.H.I.E.L.D.
65	21	"Absolution"	Billy Gierhart	Chris Dingess & Drew Z. Greenberg	May17,2016	3.03
S.H.I.E.L.D. keeps Daisy in containment while she is showing withdrawal symptoms after losing her connection with Hive, but her intel allows them to find the base from which Hive is attempting to launch the warhead. With Talbot's military contacts, S.H.I.E.L.D. is able to disable the rocket while a team of agents infiltrates the base, captures Hive, and extracts Radcliffe, with the latter agreeing to cooperate with S.H.I.E.L.D. and revealing that the Primitive process is irreversible. Giyera and James steal the warhead and, while S.H.I.E.L.D. is focused on locating it, they detonate a bomb that they had smuggled into the S.H.I.E.L.D. hangar, releasing some of Radcliffe's pathogen. Several S.H.I.E.L.D. agents transform into Primitives, freeing Hive from his containment, and he proceeds to steal Zephyr One, S.H.I.E.L.D.'s airborne mobile command that could take the warhead high enough for the pathogen to transform a large portion of humanity. Daisy escapes and confronts Hive, begging him to connect with her again.
66	22	"Ascension"	Kevin Tancharoen	Jed Whedon	May17,2016	3.03
Hive realizes that Lash has made Daisy impervious to his influence so, instead, he overpowers and abducts her. Giyera and James bring him the warhead, while many of the Primitives remain to kill the rest of S.H.I.E.L.D. May and Fitz infiltrate Zephyr One and free Daisy. Fitz kills Giyera, while Coulson and the others evade the Primitives and escape the base in a quinjet, boarding Zephyr One. Coulson plans to send the warhead into space in the quinjet to detonate safely, and Daisy believes that she must go with it to atone for her actions under Hive's sway and fulfill her vision. She enters the quinjet, where she is confronted by Hive, but Campbell throws her out and fries the jet's manual controls, ascending to space, where the warhead detonates and kills both him and Hive, thus fulfilling Daisy's vision. Six months later, Daisy has left S.H.I.E.L.D. and is operating as the vigilante "Quake", evading Coulson, who is no longer director of S.H.I.E.L.D. Radcliffe uploads his artificial intelligence AIDA into a Life Model Decoy.
Close ▲
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 4)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
Ghost Rider
67	1	"The Ghost"	Billy Gierhart	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	September20,2016	3.44
Former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Daisy Johnson, now the vigilante "Quake", is hunting gang affiliates of the terrorist group Watchdogs in Los Angeles when Aryan Brotherhood members are murdered by the fiery "Ghost Rider". Agents Phil Coulson and Alphonso Mackenzie, who were forbidden from searching for Daisy by new S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Jeffrey Mace, are tipped off to her location by Agent Melinda May. Agent Leo Fitz discovers that S.H.I.E.L.D. ally Holden Radcliffe has created the android Aida, and agrees to help perfect her. He keeps this from his girlfriend Agent Jemma Simmons, who is in the Director's inner circle. Simmons discovers that Coulson and Mack are investigating Daisy, and orders May to stop them. The latter arrives to find them surveilling Chinese gangsters who bought a weapon off the Brotherhood: a mystical figure, who turns the gang members berserk, and secretly infects May as well. Daisy tracks down the Ghost Rider, but it defeats her. She later sees its human form, mechanic Robbie Reyes, looking after his disabled brother Gabe.
68	2	"Meet the New Boss"	Vincent Misiano	Drew Z. Greenberg	September27,2016	2.95
S.H.I.E.L.D. and Daisy independently investigate the figure, an apparent ghost of a woman named Lucy Bauer, both concluding that she worked at an abandoned facility, Momentum Energy. Daisy confronts Reyes again, and he once more overpowers her. Restraining her, Reyes searches Daisy's belongings and discovers her research on Momentum. He leaves, and Daisy escapes her restraints. As Mace plans to officially announce S.H.I.E.L.D. as a legitimate organization again, the infected May grows increasingly paranoid, seeing all people as monsters, and eventually attacking other agents. Mace restrains May with his Inhuman strength, and promises to take care of her. Mack and Fitz arrive at Momentum to find more ghosts, who attempt to blow it up with them inside. Ghost Rider intervenes, destroying one of the ghosts, and Daisy arrives to stop S.H.I.E.L.D. from taking him in. Rather than rejoin S.H.I.E.L.D., Daisy agrees to work with Reyes, who believes that the actions of the ghosts and Watchdogs may be tied to him.
69	3	"Uprising"	Magnus Martens	Craig Titley	October11,2016	2.68
Inhuman S.H.I.E.L.D. asset Elena Rodriguez is caught in a blackout in Miami. Reyes and Daisy are caught in another in Los Angeles. A group claiming to be the Inhuman resistance, fighting registration with the Sokovia Accords, take responsibility. Reyes explains that his uncle, Eli Morrow, was imprisoned for causing an explosion at Momentum that apparently created the ghosts; he believes that atoning for Morrow's sins will pay his debt to the Devil, and rid Reyes of the Ghost Rider. At the Reyes' house, Gabe realizes that Daisy is Quake and asks her to leave Robbie alone. Radcliffe and Simmons "cure" May by killing and reviving her. Coulson, Mack, and Fitz save Rodriguez from a group of Watchdogs, and find the EMP that caused the blackout—it was set off by the Watchdogs, who had access to S.H.I.E.L.D.'s list of registered Inhumans, and have backing from Senator Ellen Nadeer, whose brother Vijay Nadeer is encased in an Inhuman terrigen cocoon. Hoping to assuage public fears of the Inhumans, Mace announces the return of S.H.I.E.L.D.
70	4	"Let Me Stand Next to Your Fire"	Brad Turner	Matt Owens	October18,2016	2.34
Daisy coerces Simmons to help track the Watchdogs' actions, discovering that the group hacked the Inhuman list using an Inhuman's monitoring device. Coulson visits Morrow in prison, but gets no answers. Reyes arrives to talk to Morrow, and Mack recognizes him as the Ghost Rider; they capture Reyes and earn his trust. He visits Morrow, and learns that the Momentum explosion was caused by a group of scientists studying the Darkhold, a mysterious book. Only Lucy's husband Joseph, whom Morrow had put in a coma trying to stop the experiments, survived. Daisy and Simmons find the next Inhuman on the list, J. T. James, and destroy his monitor, but he betrays them—he hates being an Inhuman and is aiding the Watchdogs. Coulson and Mack, alerted by the monitor's destruction, arrive to save Daisy and Simmons. The Ghost Rider defeats James. They then get May to help find the Darkhold. Aida supervised May's recovery as a Turing test by Radcliffe, but Simmons deduces her true nature, while being set to take a lie-detection test for Mace.
71	5	"Lockup"	Kate Woods	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	October25,2016	2.30
Lucy uses her ghostly state to wake Joseph and ask where he hid the Darkhold. Coulson arrives, and is able to learn of this before Joseph dies from her "infection". Coulson decides to use Morrow against Lucy, but doesn't tell Mace. The latter, whose public approval was high after heroics during a bombing in Vienna, becomes more popular after he reveals his Inhuman status in a television debate with Nadeer. However, Simmons threatens to reveal the truth about his Vienna actions, and he agrees to exempt her from any lie-detection tests. At the prison, Lucy infects the staff, who attack Coulson and May. Daisy saves them while Mack and Reyes break Morrow out. Reyes confronts the last member of the "Fifth Street Locos" gang who had paralyzed Gabe in a paid hit. Reyes loses control, and the Ghost Rider kills the prisoner. This allows Lucy to kidnap Morrow, whose help she needs. Mace secretly meets with Nadeer, and agrees to help her when she blackmails him with footage of the Ghost Rider's actions while working with S.H.I.E.L.D.
72	6	"The Good Samaritan"	Billy Gierhart	Jeffrey Bell	November1,2016	2.43
Mace sends Simmons on a secret assignment, then takes a team to board Coulson's plane and arrest Reyes and Daisy. The pair hide with a newly picked up Gabe, where Robbie explains that he and Gabe sneaked out to race in Morrow's car, but they were attacked by the Locos. Gabe was paralyzed and Robbie was killed. Robbie promised an unknown voice that he would seek vengeance if given a second chance, and was resurrected when the spirit of the Ghost Rider was passed to him by a stranger. Mace finds the fugitives, but is overpowered by the Ghost Rider. He agrees to use Robbie against Lucy, and Fitz tracks her to an abandoned Roxxon power plant. May takes and hides the Darkhold while Robbie destroys Lucy, after the latter reveals that Morrow craves the Darkhold's power himself—his own experiments created the ghosts, and Joseph had ordered the hit on Morrow's car to stop him. Morrow now uses an improved version of the Momentum machine to gain the power to create matter. Robbie, Fitz, and Coulson disappear.
73	7	"Deals with Our Devils"	Jesse Bochco	DJ Doyle	November29,2016	2.41
Coulson, Fitz, and Reyes are trapped between dimensions, and helplessly watch as Morrow kills several agents and escapes. Fitz overhears Mace arguing with Nadeer; he needs Simmons to understand Morrow's technology, but she has been taken to Nadeer's brother, Vijay, who she helps escape from his terrigen cocoon. In Simmons' absence, Radcliffe studies the technology, and is presented with the Darkhold by May in her desperation to save Coulson. Radcliffe believes the book contains too much knowledge for a person to process, but Aida is able to read it, revealing her android nature to Coulson and May. Aida constructs a portal through which Coulson and Fitz return. During this time, the Ghost Rider spirit had left Reyes and possessed Mack to avoid the other dimension, where it had been before. Reyes confronts the spirit, promising to serve it even after they defeat Morrow if it leaves Mack. It agrees, and Reyes returns with it through the portal. Secretly, Aida begins experimenting with her new knowledge from the Darkhold, creating an artificial brain.
74	8	"The Laws of Inferno Dynamics"	Kevin Tancharoen	Paul Zbyszewski	December6,2016	2.37
Coulson tells Mace that Aida is an android and he agrees to use her in the fight against Morrow. He also approves a strike team consisting of Rodriguez, Reyes, and Daisy, as long as the latter two keep a low profile. The team attempts to enter an abandoned building in which Morrow has barricaded himself via his growing abilities but, at first, only Reyes can make it through Morrow's initial trap. By viewing Reyes' body-cam, Fitz deduces that Morrow is drawing his power from the other dimension and has created a demon core that could destroy half the city if activated. Aida creates a new dimensional portal beneath the demon core, through which the device and Morrow are dragged. Reyes also falls through the portal after using the Ghost Rider to hold Morrow in place. Daisy is seen by local media and Mace publicly clears her name, reinstating her as an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. He then allows Radcliffe to continuing working on his Life Model Decoy (LMD) program after his success with Aida, who has secretly replaced May with an LMD.
LMD
75	9	"Broken Promises"	Garry A. Brown	Brent Fletcher	January10,2017	2.72
Fitz and Radcliffe are sent to clear Aida's memory of the Darkhold, but she reveals her new-found sentience and overpowers them. Taking control of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s systems, Aida finds the Darkhold after Coulson gives its location to the May LMD (which doesn't know it isn't the real May). Fitz is able to take control of the systems before Aida escapes and Mack beheads her. Radcliffe later laments about this to a new model of Aida, as he had programmed the original's apparent sentience in an attempt to steal the Darkhold for himself. Senator Nadeer orders a group of Watchdogs to kill a now recovered Vijay, but he convinces her to spare him as his long terrigenesis appears not to have affected him. Simmons, having identified Vijay from photographs, arrives with Mace and Daisy, as Vijay discovers he now has super-reflexes. Ellen convinces him to leave with her, but then shoots him in the stomach. Ellen asks the Watchdogs for reinforcements from "The Superior" as Vijay's body is dropped into a lake and enveloped by another terrigenesis cocoon.
76	10	"The Patriot"	Kevin Tancharoen	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	January17,2017	2.03
Mace holds a press conference for Daisy, celebrating her "undercover" actions, until a sniper attempts to assassinate him. Coulson and Mack escort Mace and PR agent Burrows—who is often seen near Mace with a mysterious briefcase—to a quinjet, but it explodes mid-flight. Burrows is flung from the plane with the briefcase and the others crash land in a forest. There, they find ex-Hydra agents, hired by the Watchdogs, who have recovered Burrows' body. In the ensuing fight, Mace tries to get a serum from the briefcase, but it is destroyed and he is injured. Mace explains that he is not an Inhuman and that he was given his abilities by a super-serum from the government to create a trustworthy, enhanced leader of S.H.I.E.L.D. After their rescue by Daisy and the May LMD, Coulson tells Mace to continue as "the Patriot", the face and political leader of S.H.I.E.L.D, while Coulson takes back command of operations. The May LMD discovers her robotic skeleton from a wound and Fitz secretly begins studying Aida's severed head.
77	11	"Wake Up"	Jesse Bochco	Drew Z. Greenberg	January24,2017	2.00
Daisy and Mace attend a Senate hearing to ratify the former's signing of the Sokovia Accords, with Senator Nadeer questioning Daisy's undercover actions. Coulson and Rodriguez infiltrate Nadeer's office to install surveillance devices, but are caught, giving Nadeer an excuse to start a full investigation of S.H.I.E.L.D. The May LMD realizes that she subconsciously leaked the details of Coulson's plan and confronts Radcliffe, as Fitz discovers Radcliffe's treachery from the original Aida's programming. Radcliffe explains to the LMD that her programming will not allow her to reveal her nature to anyone else, just before S.H.I.E.L.D. arrives and arrests him. Fitz later confronts Radcliffe in his cell and deduces that he is also an LMD—the real Radcliffe sought protection from Nadeer after Aida's initial failure. He and Aida have May captive with them, her mind in a virtual reality simulation of a tragic past event. Meanwhile, Mack and Rodriguez have grown close and he tells her of his daughter Hope from a past marriage who died as an infant.
78	12	"Hot Potato Soup"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	Craig Titley	January31,2017	2.15
Agent Billy Koenig, whom Coulson entrusted with the Darkhold, is abducted by the Watchdogs. Nadeer directs Radcliffe to the Superior, reclusive industrialist Anton Ivanov, and Radcliffe scans Koenig's brain to learn that the Darkhold was hidden in the Labyrinth, a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility known only to the Koenig family. Coulson secures the rest of the Koenig family, who take him, the May LMD, and Daisy to get the book. The Radcliffe LMD reveals that Radcliffe knows Fitz's estranged father and has created another LMD. Simmons remembers that Radcliffe scanned May's brain when they were curing her of Lucy's influence and warns Daisy of the May LMD in time to stop it from taking the Darkhold and killing Coulson. The Watchdogs arrive with Billy and Radcliffe steals the Darkhold in the ensuing fight. S.H.I.E.L.D. later destroys the remains of the first Aida and the Radcliffe LMD. Ivanov explains to Radcliffe that he plans to use the Darkhold to destroy both the Inhumans and the man who appears to be behind the recent alien crises—Coulson.
79	13	"BOOM"	Billy Gierhart	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	February7,2017	2.08
Coulson and Mack locate Agnes Kitsworth, Radcliffe's former lover and partner. Radcliffe left Kitsworth after she was diagnosed with terminal cancer, and modeled Aida after her. Coulson convinces Kitsworth to meet with Radcliffe. In case Nadeer is an Inhuman like her brother, Ivanov sends Watchdog Tucker Shockley to expose her to terrigen (provided by Radcliffe), but the substance transforms him instead. Shockley explodes, killing Nadeer, and then his molecules reassemble. Ivanov agrees to use Shockley's new ability against S.H.I.E.L.D. Radcliffe meets with Kitsworth and convinces her he can save her life if she escapes with him before S.H.I.E.L.D. captures them. Daisy confronts Shockley, and distracts him long enough for Fitz and Simmons to contain him in a specially-made device. Ivanov uses this as a distraction to attack and kidnap Mace, who has learned that each time he uses his super-serum there is a chance that it will kill him. As Kitsworth dies of the cancer, Radcliffe places her consciousness in the virtual "Framework" with May.
80	14	"The Man Behind the Shield"	Wendey Stanzler	Matt Owens	February14,2017	2.13
Years ago, Coulson and May recovered an unknown object from a Russian outpost, besting an SVR team that included Ivanov. For the failure, the SVR agents other than Ivanov were tortured and killed. Now, Ivanov leads S.H.I.E.L.D. on a treasure hunt around the world, including to that outpost, in their search for Mace. Ivanov has been torturing Mace, disgusted at his attempts to emulate the Inhumans. The team eventually finds Ivanov, and Daisy overpowers him. Coulson and Mack save a near-death Mace while Fitz and Simmons attempt to locate any sign of the Framework in hopes of finding May. Unsuccessful, the pair reunite with the others and they return to base. Aida, whom Radcliffe has left to carry out his plans while he spends time in the Framework, finds a crippled Ivanov. At base, Fitz and Simmons are alerted by their LMD security system, learning that four agents were replaced with LMDs by Aida while Fitz and Simmons were separated from the group. This includes Coulson, as the Coulson LMD wakes the May LMD from storage.
81	15	"Self Control"	Jed Whedon	Jed Whedon	February21,2017	2.01
The new LMDs are aware of their nature, and plan to carry out Ivanov's goal of destroying all Inhumans. Simmons discovers that Mace, Mack, and Fitz are the other new LMDs, and overpowers Fitz. Daisy also discovers them, and plans with Simmons to hack into the Framework remotely to find the others from the inside. Aida kills Radcliffe's body, but lets his consciousness live in the Framework. Daisy overpowers the Mace, Mack, and Coulson LMDs, but they find the May LMD waiting for them at the base entrance, tasked with detonating a large explosive to prevent their escape. The May LMD instead lets them leave, and destroys the base with the LMDs inside. In the Framework, the agents find an altered reality: Daisy is in a relationship with an alive Grant Ward; Coulson is teaching about Inhumans; Hope is alive with Mack; Fitz is rich; Simmons is dead; and May works for Hydra, which has replaced S.H.I.E.L.D. In the real world, Aida is able to sever Ivanov's living head from his crippled body and builds android bodies for his mind to control.
Agents of Hydra
82	16	"What If..."	Oz Scott	DJ Doyle	April4,2017	2.15
In the Framework, Daisy discovers that she and Ward are agents of Hydra, working under May and Fitz. The tragic event from May's past has no longer happened; in the real world, she killed Katya Belyakov, a young Inhuman girl, but in the Framework, she brought the girl back to the United States as a refugee who then became a mass murderer and the catalyst for Hydra to take power. Simmons awakens in a mass grave of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents and eventually comes across Coulson, who is teaching a Hydra-approved curriculum that warns against the dangers of Inhumans. Simmons is unable to convince Coulson that he is inside a virtual simulation and he calls Hydra. Daisy races to find Simmons before the rest of Hydra and is followed by Ward, who reveals himself to be a mole inside Hydra for the Resistance. Daisy and Simmons try to exit the Framework using a safeguard the latter created, but it has been blocked by Aida, who has entered the Framework as the Director of Hydra and Fitz's lover. Daisy then goes to Coulson and he remembers her name.
83	17	"Identity and Change"	Garry A. Brown	George Kitson	April11,2017	2.32
Hoping Radcliffe can help them escape, Daisy returns to Hydra and locates him, but May gives her a new mission on the orders of Fitz and Aida, the latter choosing to go by Ophelia, or Madame Hydra. Ward directs Coulson (who can remember some things, thanks to previous tampering with his mind) and Simmons to the Resistance, the remnants of S.H.I.E.L.D. under the command of an Inhuman Mace. Ward, Simmons, and Coulson take a stolen Hydra quinjet to extract Radcliffe. May and Daisy arrest Mack, and May forces him to trick Daisy into confessing her true allegiance. The others find Radcliffe living in seclusion with Kitsworth, and he explains that he and Kitsworth cannot leave the Framework due to their real bodies having died. Fitz and Madame Hydra arrive, and Radcliffe attempts to appeal to Fitz, though Fitz already knows of the "other world" and that Radcliffe had enslaved Aida there. He kills Kitsworth and imprisons Radcliffe, torturing him and Daisy. Regretting his actions, Mack joins the Resistance.
84	18	"No Regrets"	Eric Laneuville	Paul Zbyszewski	April18,2017	2.43
Mace and Coulson infiltrate a Hydra "Enlightenment Camp" to free an undercover agent—Antoine Triplett, a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who died in the real world. They are tracked there by May, who uses a super serum to fight Mace. Through the vents in their holding cells, Daisy learns from Radcliffe of a backdoor he installed to escape the Framework that Aida is unable to disable. Coulson attempts to save one of his former students who he sees being held in the camp, and Mace follows him into a building to help. Hydra uses a missile to bring the building down, and May enters the rubble to ensure Mace is dead. She finds him stopping debris from crushing the student, with Coulson and Triplett helping other children escape the building. May is horrified to find children being victimized by Hydra. With the others having escaped to safety, Mace is crushed beneath the debris, and in the real world Aida finds his physical body dead as well. Turning on Hydra, May sneaks a Terrigen crystal to Daisy so she can gain her Inhuman abilities within the Framework.
85	19	"All the Madame's Men"	Billy Gierhart	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	April25,2017	2.15
May and Daisy escape Hydra, with Daisy using her abilities to break Ophelia's back. Ophelia insists that Fitz complete work on their secret Project: Looking Glass, after which her Framework body will no longer matter. May and Daisy join up with S.H.I.E.L.D., who are struggling to regroup after Mace's death. May provides them with body cam footage from the attack on the Enlightenment Center, which Coulson broadcasts to the world to counteract Hydra's propaganda. Meanwhile, Simmons and Triplett investigate a Russian oil platform which he believes is the location of Looking Glass from his time undercover; the platform is the Framework equivalent of Ivanov's oil platform in the real world, from where Aida is running the Framework. The pair find the platform empty, and Simmons deduces that Looking Glass consists of a machine built on the real world platform, to be connected to a machine in the Framework using knowledge from the Darkhold, allowing Ophelia to go from the Framework to a true human body in the real world.
86	20	"Farewell, Cruel World!"	Vincent Misiano	Brent Fletcher	May2,2017	2.15
After Daisy and Simmons entered the Framework, their bodies were protected by Rodriguez and Agents Piper, Davis and Prince aboard the S.H.I.E.L.D. aircraft Zephyr One. With their connection to the Framework draining the plane's power, Piper chose to shut off its cloaking ability, revealing their location to Ivanov and his men. In the Framework, Simmons visits and accidentally kills Fitz's father Alistair, and Fitz begins hunting her with help from Radcliffe, Fitz having offered to send Radcliffe through the machine, restoring his living body. Ophelia initiates her transference into her new body. Daisy takes the group to Radcliffe's exit point, where she, Coulson, and May cross back into the real world. Fitz arrives and confronts Simmons, but is overpowered by Radcliffe, who regrets all his actions since he first saw and wanted the Darkhold. Radcliffe sends Fitz through, followed by Simmons. Mack decides to stay, not wanting to live in a world without Hope. At Ivanov's platform, the newly human Ophelia confronts Coulson, May, and Fitz, teleporting away with the latter.
87	21	"The Return"	Kevin Tancharoen	Maurissa Tancharoen & Jed Whedon	May9,2017	2.14
The agents on Zephyr One fight off Ivanov's men and race to the platform to save Coulson and May from Ivanov's android bodies. Ivanov launches torpedoes at the platform that threaten Mack's body, but the latter is saved by Ophelia, convinced by Fitz to put to good use the Inhuman abilities his machine had given her new body. In isolation at S.H.I.E.L.D., Fitz and Ophelia discuss her newly discovered human emotions and the fact that he remembers all the terrible things he did inside the Framework. He admits that he ultimately still loves Simmons over her, outraging Ophelia. Glenn Talbot arrives at the ruined S.H.I.E.L.D. base, where Ophelia kills several of his soldiers and other S.H.I.E.L.D. agents including Prince. Coulson and the others flee in the Zephyr once more, while Ophelia returns to Ivanov, who plans to use knowledge from the Darkhold to apply the changed reality of the Framework to the real world. Meanwhile, Rodriguez enters the Framework herself to try to convince Mack to leave, and the Ghost Rider returns through a portal from the other dimension.
88	22	"World's End"	Billy Gierhart	Jeffrey Bell	May16,2017	2.08
Ivanov takes the Darkhold to an international meeting on S.H.I.E.L.D. and the recent events. He proposes to use the book against the Inhumans, which is timed with an attack on the group by an LMD of Daisy, who shoots Talbot in the head leaving him comatose. In the ensuing fight, S.H.I.E.L.D. is able to retrieve the Darkhold with Reyes' help. In the Framework, Rodriguez is unable to convince Mack to leave, but he returns with her after Hope's code is deleted as a result of Ophelia shutting down the Framework. Radcliffe is also deleted, after accepting that immortality without Kitsworth is worthless. Ophelia comes for the Darkhold, and Coulson surprises her by unleashing the Spirit of Vengeance himself, having made a deal to become the Ghost Rider for a short time. He incinerates Ophelia. Reyes, now the Ghost Rider again, takes the Darkhold through a portal. The S.H.I.E.L.D. agents then wait to be arrested by the government, but are instead taken by a mysterious group. Some time later, Coulson finds himself on a space station.
Close ▲
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 5)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
89	1	"Orientation"	Jesse Bochco	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	December1,2017	2.54
90	2	David Solomon	DJ Doyle
An unknown group seizes Phil Coulson, Melinda May, Daisy Johnson, Jemma Simmons, Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie, and Elena "Yo-Yo" Rodriguez and transports them to a space station through a monolith; Leo Fitz is left behind. Upon arrival, the team is heralded by Virgil, who dies soon after. They quickly regroup and meet Deke Shaw, who reveals that to his knowledge the space station, known as the Lighthouse, was built nearly ninety years prior. Hoping to send a message back to Earth, May and Simmons discover the planetary wreckage near the Lighthouse is in fact Earth, which has been torn apart by a cataclysmic event. At the same time, Coulson discovers that the monolith transported them not through space, but forward through time. Elsewhere, Mack and Yo-Yo are held captive by the Kree, who maintain control of the station by encouraging bloodshed among its inhabitants. Back in the station, the team attempts to blend in by agreeing to work for Grill and meets Tess, who saves them during a "kill or be killed" event known as the Renewal. Coulson goes with Tess to learn more about Virgil's message and finds a hidden notebook. Meanwhile, Simmons is taken to meet Kasius, the Kree leader of the station, and is inducted as one of his servants. Later on, Daisy confronts Deke in his framework simulation, where he states she is the reason the Earth was torn apart.
91	3	"A Life Spent"	Kevin Hooks	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	December8,2017	1.93
In preparation for Lady Basha's arrival, Simmons is given the task of helping an Inhuman control her new abilities for her exhibition ceremony. Simmons is successful, but becomes distraught when Kasius sells her to Lady Basha. While the team adapts to their new jobs, Grill becomes suspicious of the new arrivals and sends one of his men to spy on them. During a space expedition, Coulson, May, Mack, and Tess struggle to make sense of Virgil's notebook and discover a radio transmission supposedly originating from the Earth's surface. Grill's spy reports back, only to be framed as a traitor and exiled to die on Earth. Meanwhile, Yo-Yo helps Daisy get a hold of a Kree tablet to try and save Simmons. However, her mission is thwarted by Deke, who reports her to Kasius who captures Daisy.
92	4	"A Life Earned"	Stan Brooks	Drew Z. Greenberg	December15,2017	1.84
Daisy meets Ben, one of Kasius' other champions, capable of telepathy. Using Ben to corroborate their story, Kasius interrogates Daisy and Simmons about the others. They are able to convince Kasius they came alone, though he remains suspicious. During the interrogation, Ben learns that Kasius intends to destroy the station and everyone on it once he acquires enough profits to leave. Deke returns to the others to gather new information as they learn about the mysterious Level 35. Recognizing his father's voice on the radio transmission, Deke agrees to help them gain access to the restricted floor. There, they discover that Kasius is attempting to breed Inhumans. May also discovers Deke lied about Daisy's whereabouts, but gets interrupted by Sinara. Coulson leaves with Deke while May fights her alone. Meanwhile, Grill sends Mack to confront someone who owes him payment. Later, Fitz is revealed to be one of the bidders who have arrived for Daisy's exhibition.
93	5	"Rewind"	Jesse Bochco	Craig Titley	December22,2017	2.40
Shortly after the others are taken from the diner, Fitz is taken into military custody and interrogated by General Hale and her subordinates about the others' whereabouts, as well as their involvement in the assassination attempt on General Glenn Talbot and the deaths of Jeffrey Mace and Holden Radcliffe. For the next six months, Fitz is given special privileges to allow him to locate the team, but he fails. With help from Lance Hunter, Fitz escapes the military facility and tracks down Enoch, the man who took the others. Enoch explains that a prophecy foretold these events and takes them to meet Robin, the daughter of Charles Hinton who expresses her prophetic abilities through drawings. Tracked by the military, Enoch helps them escape to a secret bunker where Fitz learns that he was left behind so he could save the team. Determined to help them, Fitz and Hunter break back into Hale's military facility to obtain a cryogenic pod; they find all their old S.H.I.E.L.D. tech, including the Zephyr One, which they use to escape. Using the pod, Fitz is put to sleep for the next 74 years. He is awakened by Enoch, who prepares him for their arrival at the Lighthouse.
94	6	"Fun & Games"	Clark Gregg	Brent Fletcher	January5,2018	2.49
Down in the station, the Kree have harvested some of the youth for an unscheduled terrigenesis ceremony. Flint, a friend of Tess, experiences a successful terrigenesis and is taken into hiding with the team by Yo-Yo. Tess is killed and hanged for Flint's disappearance. During a dinner with the other bidders, Fitz quickly proves himself as a formidable character, earning Kasius' respect. The first exhibition is then held between Ben and May, resulting in May being sent to the surface while Ben is killed for lying during Daisy's interrogation. Meanwhile, Grill finds the team and holds them captive until Flint saves them using geokinesis against Grill, killing him. The unexpected arrival of Kasius' brother prompts Sinara to battle Daisy for her exhibition, during which Daisy, Fitz, and Simmons are able to subdue the others and escape. During the escape, Simmons proposes to Fitz.
95	7	"Together or Not at All"	Brad Turner	Matt Owens	January12,2018	2.31
On the surface, Enoch finds May, but their meeting is cut short by the approaching gravity storm. A mysterious figure captures them. Daisy, Fitz, and Simmons are hunted throughout the station and discover the station is being sustained by gravitonium. Fitz is shot during the chase. Deke finds them and takes them to the rest of the team. Reunited, the team plots their escape to the Earth's surface by using a trawler and Deke's anti-gravity device. After learning about Tess' death, Flint decides to stay on the station to protect the remaining inhabitants. Mack and Yo-Yo agree to stay behind and help him. Coulson, Daisy, Fitz, Simmons, and Deke fly to the surface, but get caught in the gravity storm. Meanwhile, Kasius kills his brother and plots to regain his father's acceptance by recapturing Daisy with help from Sinara. On the surface, the mysterious figure takes Enoch and May to safety, where they are greeted by an elderly Robin.
96	8	"The Last Day"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	January19,2018	2.41
Coulson, Daisy, Fitz, Simmons, and Deke survive the crash and reunite with May in the Zephyr. They meet Samuel Voss, an acquaintance of Deke's father. Up on the Lighthouse, Kasius punishes the inhabitants by cutting off their resources. Flint, Mack, and Yo-Yo go to retrieve the weapons hidden by Fitz and discover Kasius has released the Vrellnexians onto the lower levels. They defeat the Vrellnexians and rescue the remaining inhabitants. On the surface, the team struggles to get answers from Robin and find a machine built into the Zephyr. While Fitz and Simmons attempt to remove Daisy's inhibitor, May and Coulson find a shard of the time monolith in Voss' locker. Deke questions Voss about the shard, which belonged to his parents, and gets knocked out. Voss then tries to kill Daisy and impales Robin to prevent her from giving the team answers. Before dying, Robin is comforted by May as she reveals their history and finally tells May how to save the world, which requires Flint. In the past, May is shown taking care of Robin and encouraging Fitz to build his machine so they can travel through time.
97	9	"Best Laid Plans"	Garry A. Brown	George Kitson	January26,2018	2.27
As the gravity storm worsens, the team attempts to relaunch the Zephyr. May reveals that, using the shard, Flint can recreate the monolith allowing the team to travel back through time. Similar to the Lighthouse, Fitz and Simmons find gravitonium on the Zephyr and realize the designs were manufactured by Fitz himself. On the station, Flint, Mack, and Yo-Yo successfully gain control of the lower levels. Tess is resurrected by Kasius and sent to relay demands for him as he threatens to detonate explosives, killing everyone if they are not met. Mack and Yo-Yo retaliate by placing the explosives on Level 35, the medical floor, which would prevent Kasius from breeding more Inhumans. During a standoff with Kasius, Flint evacuates the inhabitants to the upper levels and uses the remaining explosives to separate them from the lower levels, out of Kasius' reach. Using the gravity storm to her advantage, May navigates the Zephyr into space as Daisy battles Sinara again, this time killing her. Daisy then contacts Mack while the team heads for the Lighthouse. Kasius reveals he has his own seer telling him what will happen.
98	10	"Past Life"	Eric Laneuville	DJ Doyle	February2,2018	2.22
While Enoch stays on the Zephyr, the team focuses on getting to Flint and rescuing the other Inhumans from captivity. Distraught over Sinara's death, Kasius infects Tye, the Inhuman trainer, with odium, a substance that excites maniacal behavior, and sends him after the team. During a fight with Tye, Coulson seemingly gets infected. Kasius' seer is revealed to be Yo-Yo from the future, one who has lived through the time loop and endured endless torture. She reveals that the team's ultimate return will bring the end of the world and that the only solution is to let Coulson succumb to his infection. As Flint recreates the monolith, Mack leaves to find Yo-Yo and witnesses her future self's death by Kasius, who consumes the remaining odium and fights him. With help from Simmons, Mack kills Kasius and reunites with Yo-Yo, who is still alive in their timeline. Deke returns to the Zephyr in time to save Enoch and fix the machine, although seemingly at the cost of both of their lives, as the team returns to the present.
99	11	"All the Comforts of Home"	Kate Woods	Drew Z. Greenberg	March2,2018	1.90
Back in their time, the team meets Noah, Enoch's successor, who has been monitoring the world from the Lighthouse in their absence. Coulson, May, Fitz, Simmons, Mack, and Yo-Yo investigate a beacon emitting from Earth, which fits Voss' description of the first signs of the end. Reluctant to join the team, Daisy stays behind and discovers that Deke survived the explosion. After he is arrested, Daisy is forced to leave the bunker to save him and prevent him from exposing the team, who are now most wanted. Upon finding the beacon, the team reunites with Agent Piper, who is revealed to be working for General Hale. They are then ambushed by a group of Hale's robotic soldiers, led by an assassin. During the fight, the assassin attempts to kill Mack with their chakram, but Yo-Yo blocks the attack and loses both her arms. Piper realigns with the team as they retreat to the Lighthouse with the beacon, which detonates as Noah sacrifices himself to save Daisy and Fitz. Later, General Hale criticizes the assassin, revealed to be her daughter, Ruby, for jeopardizing the operation. In Philadelphia, General Hale recruits Carl Creel to join her team and he reluctantly agrees.
100	12	"The Real Deal"	Kevin Tancharoen	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen & Jeffrey Bell	March9,2018	2.04
The destruction of three monoliths that were being stored in the bunker by the beacon's explosion creates a dimensional rift that manifests the fears of the team. Using gravitonium, Fitz creates a device capable of sealing the rift; Coulson volunteers to deliver the device before he collapses. The team finds out about his infection, which is a result of the Ghost Rider burning off the life-sustaining GH-325 drug within him. The team is forced to accelerate their plan when Yo-Yo is attacked by a manifestation of a Simmons LMD. Coulson sends Deke to the surface to call for backup, then proceeds alone to seal the rift. He encounters a manifestation of Mike Peterson, who claims that Coulson's experiences are just a dream and that he is dying on an operating table after the Battle of New York. Coulson overcomes his fear and is saved by the real Peterson, who responds to Deke's call and arrives with several other S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Coulson and Peterson fight off manifestations of Vrellnexians, Lash, and Hive, before managing to contain the rift. Later, the team organizes a wedding ceremony for Fitz and Simmons. General Hale, who is investigating sightings of Daisy, finds evidence that Deke is related to Fitz and Simmons.
101	13	"Principia"	Brad Turner	Craig Titley	March16,2018	2.07
When the rift begins to reopen, Fitz sends the team to search for more gravitonium. The team hunts down a lead in Baton Rouge; Mack reunites with his school mate, Tony Caine, who has been helping to redeem scientists coerced into working for Hydra through Cybertek Industries. Caine states that the gravitonium was in transport aboard the Principia, a Cybertek ship that went missing. Deke realizes the gravitonium may have been activated by the lightning storm, sending the Principia into the sky. Following Deke's theory, the team finds the Principia suspended in the atmosphere and discovers most of the gravitonium is gone, leaving only a small portion to sustain the ship. As Mack collects the remaining gravitonium, a group of Hale's robotic soldiers ambushes them. The team successfully escapes the ship before it plummets back to Earth. Upon hearing his mother's saying in an exchange between Simmons and Yo-Yo, Deke realizes Fitz and Simmons are his grandparents. Meanwhile, General Hale continues to form her team by attempting to recruit Werner von Strucker, whose memory was enhanced after S.H.I.E.L.D. revived him from a vegetative state. While Strucker initially rejects Hale's offer, Ruby convinces him to stay.
102	14	"The Devil Complex"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	Matt Owens	March23,2018	2.07
When Simmons is attacked by a manifestation of an astronaut, Fitz accelerates work on sealing the rift, but struggles to figure out how to compress the gravitonium. Under stress, Fitz encounters his Framework alter ego, The Doctor, who taunts him. On the Zephyr, Coulson, May, and Agent Piper capture General Hale; however, she reveals she was prepared for such an occasion and threatens to detonate explosives strapped to Creel if S.H.I.E.L.D. fails to comply. Anton Ivanov arrives and Coulson agrees to accompany them, despite May's unease. Simmons, Mack, and Yo-Yo are attacked by one of the robots that Mack brought back from the Principia. While dealing with technical malfunctions, Daisy is rendered unconscious by another robot and awakens restrained by The Doctor. Simmons finds Fitz removing Daisy's inhibitor. She deduces that The Doctor was not a result of the fear dimension, but a projection of Fitz's internal turmoil. He reprogrammed the robots to isolate Daisy, whose powers he uses to compress the gravitonium and seal the rift completely. Deke attempts to comfort Simmons, while also revealing himself as their grandson. Later, Hale speaks to her mysterious benefactor, Qovas, who hands her a vial of odium and reminds her of her Hydra allegiance.
103	15	"Rise and Shine"	Jesse Bochco	Iden Baghdadchi	March30,2018	1.88
28 years ago, a young Hale was assigned by Daniel Whitehall to infiltrate the United States Air Force and be impregnated via in vitro fertilization with Ruby, Hydra's next leader. In the present, Hale fails to convince a recently-awakened Talbot to release Hydra contraband. She also informs Coulson that an alien alliance known as the Confederacy made contact with Hydra and offered to assist Earth during an impending invasion; she intends to betray the alliance by using Whitehall's particle-infusion chamber and the gravitonium to create a Destroyer of Worlds. Though she intends for it to be Ruby, she suggests Daisy may be a better fit. Upon hearing this, Coulson denies her offer and reveals his trip to the future, but she doesn't believe him. Back at the Lighthouse, May and Daisy struggle to deduce Hale's motivations and locate Coulson. Daisy, who has been left as the de facto head of S.H.I.E.L.D., refuses to trust Fitz and goes in search of Robin. Simmons tells Fitz about their relation to Deke, suggesting they will survive despite the odds.
104	16	"Inside Voices"	Salli Richardson-Whitfield	Mark Leitner	April6,2018	2.08
Under Hale's orders, Creel attempts to absorb the gravitonium and begins to see flashes of Franklin Hall. In anguish from his exposure to the gravitonium, Creel works with Coulson and Talbot to escape. Hale sends Ruby after them as Creel stays behind, allowing Coulson and Talbot to escape via the Confederacy's teleportation device. Meanwhile, Daisy and May locate Robin, who has stopped drawing her visions for some time after seeing her own death in the future. Upon seeing May, Robin begins to draw again, this time showing Coulson and Talbot's location in the mountains. Back at the Lighthouse, Simmons convinces Yo-Yo to help her free Fitz and pursue possible leads on Hydra's gravitonium-powered weapon. Together, they trick Mack into releasing Fitz before locking him up. A flashback to four years ago reveals that Ian Quinn was tricked by Raina into being absorbed by the gravitonium.
105	17	"The Honeymoon"	Garry A. Brown	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	April13,2018	1.82
Ruby pursues Coulson and Talbot in the mountains, but Daisy arrives in time to save them. Deke, in an attempt to cover for Daisy, is shot by Hale and her men, forcing S.H.I.E.L.D. to retreat. Deke is taken back to the Lighthouse, where Mack and Piper operate on him and successfully save him. May confronts Coulson about his recent actions and eventually admits her feelings for him. Ruby, furious about her mother's attitude, decides to rebel and lock Hale in her cell while she takes over and works with Strucker. Fitz, Simmons, and Yo-Yo travel to a Hydra facility in England, where they find the particle infusion chamber. Fitz damages one of the components to render it useless, but they are then surrounded by the robot soldiers. Yo-Yo attempts to escape and call for backup, but is forced to fight Ivanov. As she emerges victorious, she learns that Ivanov's body is linked to all the robots and thus is able to disable them altogether. However, Ruby and Strucker arrive and decide to capture Fitz and Simmons in order to have them repair the infusion chamber. Meanwhile, Daisy helps Talbot contact his family, but unknowingly helps activate his brainwashing through his wife, Carla who has been compromised by Hydra.
106	18	"All Roads Lead..."	Jennifer Lynch	George Kitson	April20,2018	1.67
After locating Blue Raven Ridge, Daisy and May are sent to apprehend Hale, who willingly surrenders after Creel informs her of Quinn and Hall's consciousnesses within the gravitonium. She reveals that Ruby plans to become the Destroyer of Worlds and takes them to her. They arrive at the site just as Ruby begins the infusion process, but Strucker is forced to stop the process at 8%. Unable to control the element, Ruby inadvertently crushes Strucker's skull, killing him. While May extracts Fitz and Simmons, Daisy and Hale attempt to calm Ruby down. Yo-Yo returns for Daisy, though upon realizing Ruby is the Destroyer of Worlds and the one who cut her arms off, she slices Ruby's neck with her own chakram in retaliation. Ruby's body releases a blast of energy as Hale escapes. Back at the Lighthouse, Talbot attempts to kidnap Robin, but Coulson and Mack manage to subdue him. Later, Hale is seen in the Confederacy ship, where she reveals S.H.I.E.L.D.'s possession of the gravitonium to Qovas.
107	19	"Option Two"	Kevin Tancharoen	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	April27,2018	1.68
Coulson puts the base on lockdown as Qovas and his Confederacy ship appear above River's End. Despite this, Qovas' troops, the Remorath scavengers, are able to teleport inside in pursuit of the gravitonium. While Coulson, May, Mack, Fitz, and Deke defend the control room, Yo-Yo retrieves Talbot and proceeds to the lab where Simmons, Piper, and Davis are guarding the gravitonium. Yo-Yo, Piper, and Davis attempt to clear the halls when Talbot ices Simmons and places himself in the particle infusion chamber, absorbing the remaining gravitonium. With his new powers, he is able to rescue the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents before taking off with Coulson to an unknown location. Meanwhile, Daisy relocates Robin and Polly with the help of Caine, who also gives her the Centipede serum, which was once used to keep John Garrett alive. However, Caine failed to retrieve a special ingredient, prompting Daisy to dig up her mother's grave.
108	20	"The One Who Will Save Us All"	Cherie Gierhart	Brent Fletcher	May4,2018	1.65
After arriving on Qovas' ship, Talbot assumes leadership and demands an audience with the Confederacy. To prove himself, Talbot displays control over his new abilities by killing one of the leaders and taking his place in the alliance. Kasius' father, Taryan, attempts to manipulate Talbot into increasing his powers by revealing untapped subterranean deposits of gravitonium on Earth, which would allow him to save the world from Thanos' imminent invasion. Coulson and Hale fail to convince him of Taryan's true motives and are forced to comply. Back at the Lighthouse, an odium-powered Remorath warrior attacks Mack before succumbing to the substance. As Simmons studies the odium, Daisy returns with Jiaying's corpse and the Centipede serum, tasking her to find a cure to save Coulson. Meanwhile, the team equips the Zephyr with gravitonium for space travel and proceeds to Qovas' ship. Daisy and May infiltrate the ship, but are forced to surrender when Talbot incapacitates Daisy. Talbot kills Hale after she attempts to trigger Talbot's brainwashing. Later, Daisy is imprisoned and awakens to Taryan, who plans to take her back to his homeworld.
109	21	"The Force of Gravity"	Kevin Tancharoen	Drew Z. Greenberg & Craig Titley	May11,2018	1.94
As an unconscious Daisy is being transported, Taryan communicates with her using a device. Daisy destroys the device and awakens, then evades her captors. After Talbot leaves on a Quinjet for Earth, Deke rescues Coulson and May, then reunites with Daisy. At a hospital, Talbot approaches Creel and offers him peace by turning him into gravitonium; he then absorbs Creel. Deducing Talbot's desire to prove himself a good father, Mack and Yo-Yo track him to his family's home. Talbot threatens the agents; his son George dissuades him from causing further harm and he leaves to prove his heroism. Meanwhile, Coulson leaves with Daisy on the Zephyr while May duels with Qovas and Deke redirects the missiles to target the ship itself. May and Deke successfully teleport back to Earth as Qovas perishes along with the ship. On the Zephyr, Coulson is attacked by a Remorath and begins to bleed out as his condition worsens. At the Lighthouse, Fitz and Simmons explain that the remaining Centipede serum could be combined with Jiaying's DNA or odium, which would respectively allow the team to save Coulson or stop Talbot. Elsewhere, Talbot captures Polly and Robin and asks the latter for the gravitonium's location.
110	22	"The End"	Jed Whedon	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	May18,2018	1.88
The team argues about the usage of the Centipede serum until May destroys the odium vial. Deke advises Daisy to help unite the team and settle their differences. Under coercion, Robin informs Talbot of a gravitonium deposit in Chicago, to which he commandeers Qovas' ship. Daisy chooses Mack to lead S.H.I.E.L.D. and he coordinates the team as they evacuate as many civilians as possible. Simmons provides Coulson with the Centipede serum, but he refuses to take it and discreetly hides it in Daisy's gauntlets while convincing her to face Talbot alone. Daisy attempts to appeal to Talbot's patriotism, but Talbot attacks and attempts to absorb her. Discovering the serum, Daisy injects herself with it and uses her enhanced abilities to blast Talbot into space, thus changing the timeline. While rescuing Polly and Robin from Qovas' ship, Fitz is mortally wounded by falling debris, May and Mack staying by his side as he dies. Simmons resolves to find the present version of Fitz, who is in stasis aboard Enoch's ship. After bidding his fellow agents farewell, Coulson is accompanied by May as he leaves S.H.I.E.L.D. to spend his last days in Tahiti.
Close ▲
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 6)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
111	1	"Missing Pieces"	Clark Gregg	Jed Whedon & Maurissa Tancharoen	May10,2019	2.31
A year after the death of director Phil Coulson, S.H.I.E.L.D. is rebuilding under the leadership of Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie. They investigate a series of energy anomalies formed by hostile strangers emerging from portals, one of whom gets trapped inside a wall and partially turns to concrete. In deep space, Agents Daisy Johnson, Jemma Simmons, Piper, and Davis search for Leo Fitz, who was last seen in a cryofreeze chamber on a spaceship with the Chronicom Enoch; they find the spaceship abandoned and the chamber empty. Simmons learns that the chamber was created on Naro-Atzia, but the others decide to return to Earth. They are attacked by a Confederacy cruiser and, in the rush to escape, Simmons plots a course to Naro-Atzia. Mack and Melinda May recruit Dr. Marcus Benson to help found a S.H.I.E.L.D. academy and provide science support. They find coordinates on the man in concrete, Tinker, which lead them to a museum. The surviving hostiles are there and destroy the building to make way for their leader, Sarge, who looks just like Coulson.
112	2	"Window of Opportunity"	Kevin Tancharoen	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	May17,2019	2.18
Sarge and his crew begin to gather supplies for their mission, hiding their truck using cloaking technology. They rob a jewelry store to gather piezoelectric gems, attracting the attention of S.H.I.E.L.D. May and Elena "Yo-Yo" Rodriguez lead a team to capture Sarge and his crew, but are locked out of the vault. On a hunch, May finds the hidden truck where Sarge's crew is using a portal to move the gems out of the vault. May overpowers Jaco, Snowflake, and Pax, but hesitates when she sees Sarge. Sarge's team pushes May through the portal before closing it. Investigating Tinker, Benson decrypts a memory chip on him and finds footage of Sarge and his crew witnessing the destruction of a planet. In space, Fitz is out of cryo and hiding on a cargo ship with Enoch. They are discovered by the ship's controller, Viro, who threatens to kill them unless they work as slaves. Fitz tricks Viro into being sucked out of an airlock and changes course to Kitson, where the ship's crew can find new work.
113	3	"Fear and Loathing on the Planet of Kitson"	Jesse Bochco	Brent Fletcher & Craig Titley	May24,2019	2.26
Fitz and Enoch arrive on Kitson, but their ship gets stolen at gunpoint, so they decide to head to the local casino to win enough money for a new ship in spite of their strict rule against "robots." Meanwhile, Daisy's group arrives on Naro-Atzia, where they are boarded by Malachi, a bounty hunter looking for Fitz. They manage to tie him up and find out that Fitz headed to Kitson, where they arrive later. Meanwhile, Enoch wins multiple consecutive games, but gets played and loses all their winnings. Needing to win a large sum and lacking money to bet, Fitz enters a game where he is himself the collateral: losers are sold into slavery. Daisy, Simmons, and Davis eat some alien "puffs," only to learn that they are hallucinogenic. Malachi, revealed to be another Chronicom, knocks out Davis and overrides Enoch's systems remotely, revealing Enoch as a "robot" to the casino runners. Despite being high, Daisy is able to defeat Malachi's gang. Simmons momentarily reunites with Fitz before Malachi teleports away with him. Meanwhile, back on Earth, Sarge shoots statically-charged particles into the atmosphere, covering the entire planet.
114	4	"Code Yellow"	Mark Kolpack	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	May31,2019	2.35
Deke Shaw is revealed to have started a company using S.H.I.E.L.D.'s tech. Sarge and his team track down a seemingly normal man and kill him with a strange knife. The body is brought to Benson, who discovers a bat-like alien parasite that revives and flies into the vent system after the knife is removed. Sarge's team goes after Shaw as their next target, with Sarge pretending to be Coulson to get close to Shaw. Eventually, he realizes it's not Coulson and attempts to escape, aided by an undercover S.H.I.E.L.D. agent assigned to keep an eye on him. Mack, May, and a strike team enter the building and attempt to apprehend Sarge and his team alive. Though Mack is able to capture Pax and Jaco while May defeats Snowflake, Sarge gets the upper hand and kidnaps May. While tracking the parasite, it flies into Agent Keller's mouth and starts fusing with his vascular system. Benson and Yo-Yo attempt to get him to a containment room, but he explodes in a mass of crystalline structures. Yo-Yo retrieves the knife and stops the parasite from destroying the base, but is left devastated by her failure to save Keller.
115	5	"The Other Thing"	Lou Diamond Phillips	George Kitson	June14,2019	2.18
While in Sarge's custody, May is forced to kill a parasite-infected man. Afterwards, he reveals that it was part of the "Shrike," parasites that infect worlds and destroy them on behalf of their creator, and that he intends to stop them once and for all. May eventually turns the tables on Sarge and brings him back to base, all while experiencing memories of Coulson. Daisy's team is captured by Chronicoms led by Atarah, Enoch's former superior. After their homeworld was destroyed by a mysterious plague, they took the Confederacy's ships to defend themselves and kidnapped Fitz to unlock the secret to time travel. With Enoch betraying them and no other choice left, Simmons surrenders to the Chronicoms in order to reunite with Fitz so Daisy and her team can live and return to Earth. Mack and Benson comfort Yo-Yo, who's still affected by Keller's death. While performing the autopsy, Benson learns that the parasite and the knife used to kill it were composed of crystals similar to the Monoliths the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents have encountered in the past. Enoch reunites with Fitz and gets him up to speed on what's happened before gassing him, betraying him as well.
116	6	"Inescapable"	Jesse Bochco	DJ Doyle	June21,2019	2.12
Atarah uses a special device to trap Fitz and Simmons inside their own minds, forcing them to work together to figure out time travel logic. While imprisoned, Fitz learns from a reluctant Simmons of her time-traveling adventures, including the deaths of his alternate future self and Coulson. The two of them are then pursued by Fitz's Framework persona as well as an undead Simmons, formed from her suppressed pain and bad memories from throughout her life. After a brief argument, Fitz and Simmons reconcile and overcome their fears. They are then freed by Enoch, who has had second thoughts about his allegiances and manages to overpower Atarah and the other Chronicoms. The three of them then teleport away to an unknown destination. Back on Earth, Daisy briefs Mack on Fitz and Simmons' situation and learns that Earth is being invaded by the same creatures that are responsible for the Chronicom homeworld's destruction.
117	7	"Toldja"	Keith Potter	Mark Leitner	June28,2019	2.17
Fitz, Simmons, and Enoch end up teleporting back to Kitson, where they are captured by Mr. Kitson, the planet's owner, and forced to gamble for their lives. However, a mysterious mercenary named Izel intervenes and buys their freedom in exchange for their help in finding an artifact on Earth. As they prepare a ship for departure, Enoch parts ways with them, as he has now completed his initial mission, and sets out to help his people once more. Back on Earth, S.H.I.E.L.D. attempts to interrogate Sarge and his crew, but to no avail. Using one of his tracker devices, the team locates two Shrike hosts and captures them. However, both hosts cause a violent interaction when in close proximity, creating another crystallized explosion. Sarge reveals their weakness against cold exposure, which helps save May and Yo-Yo in time, in exchange for his and his crew's freedom.
118	8	"Collision Course (Part I)"	Kristin Windell	Jeffrey Bell & Craig Titley	July5,2019	1.79
Sarge reveals that a large number of Shrike hosts will converge at a specific site to create a crystallized tower in preparation for the arrival of "the Beast." Mack assigns Daisy, May, and Deke to accompany Sarge and Snowflake to the site while he secretly follows them on the Zephyr One. While being imprisoned onboard, Pax reveals to Yo-Yo that Sarge's plan is to use a bomb to detonate the tower and take out the Beast, who Sarge reveals to be Izel. As they head back toward Earth, Fitz and Simmons learn from Izel that she is looking for the monoliths, known as the Di'Allas. Izel secretly begins using Shrike to infect the ship's crew one by one until only Fitz and Simmons are left. As Daisy, May, and Deke find the bomb, Sarge teleports back to the Zephyr after setting the truck to collide with the tower. Back on Kitson, Enoch establishes contact with one of his associates, Isaiah, and proposes an alliance. Meanwhile, the Chronicom hunters attempt to take down Enoch by using their memory machine to learn from Fitz and Simmons' memories.
119	9	"Collision Course (Part II)"	Sarah Boyd	Iden Baghdadchi	July12,2019	2.30
Sarge takes over the Zephyr and commands Mack to pursue Izel's ship. Deke fails to disarm the bomb, but as the truck collides with the tower, Daisy uses her powers to contain it, preventing it from exploding. The collision releases a swarm of Shrike that surround the truck, but Daisy is able to quake them apart. Izel commands the spaceship to retreat. Sarge kills Pax in anger after learning the bomb plot failed. When Fitz and Simmons successfully make contact with S.H.I.E.L.D., Sarge threatens Izel. Believing Fitz and Simmons to be conspiring against her, she commands the ship's crew to eliminate them. Yo-Yo convinces Jaco to remember his purpose for fighting, leading him to help them. Mack frees himself with Yo-Yo's help and overpowers Sarge. Mack, Yo-Yo, Davis, and Jaco then infiltrate Izel's ship and rescue Fitz and Simmons, but Izel disappears. The group escapes the ship through the portal into the truck, reuniting with Daisy and the others. Jaco decides to go back and detonate the bomb, sacrificing himself in the process. Later, S.H.I.E.L.D. celebrates their victory while Sarge is imprisoned. Mack and Yo-Yo reconcile and rekindle their relationship. Later, May enters Sarge's cell and seemingly kills him.
120	10	"Leap"	Garry A. Brown	Drew Z. Greenberg	July19,2019	2.38
Sarge's body is taken to the lab, where Fitz and Simmons learn that he is still alive and that his wounds are healing fast. May submits to capture and confesses. However, she later claims that she doesn't remember. Eventually, the team deduces that Izel has the power to possess people and that she infiltrated the Lighthouse through Davis. Mack puts the base on lockdown and gathers everyone at the command center for questioning. After Mack locks up Daisy and Yo-Yo to prevent them from being controlled, Izel appears and demands the Monoliths. The agents attempt to stop her, but Izel keeps hopping through them until she drops Davis from a ledge, killing him before taking Mack. Fitz deduces that the Monoliths represented space, time, and creation. When they exploded, their combined energy created a new Coulson and sent him to another planet in the past. Sarge escapes and confronts Izel, who's found the device containing the Monoliths' energy. She reveals that his real name is Pachakutiq, they're both from a planet of non-corporeal beings, and he had gotten his memories confused with Coulson's when he took the Coulson body. Despite this, Sarge refuses to join Izel. When Yo-Yo and Daisy confront her, the former allows herself to be possessed and demands Mack fly her somewhere else. Shaken, Sarge refuses to believe Izel, even as his powers start to manifest.
121	11	"From the Ashes"	Jennifer Phang	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	July26,2019	2.14
Izel plans to take the Monolith energy to a specific temple, so she possesses Mack and summons Benson. Though Yo-Yo successfully warns him before he reveals the information, Izel torments Benson with a manifestation of his deceased husband, Thomas, until he gives up the location. Yo-Yo and Mack trick Izel into releasing Benson so he can let S.H.I.E.L.D. know where she is headed. Daisy and May argue over whether any trace of Coulson lies inside Sarge and if they should further antagonize him to unleash his power against Izel. Deke realizes Izel's ability is based on vibrations, so he, Fitz, and Simmons begin working on a device to counter it. Daisy finally reads the letter Coulson left for her and snaps Sarge's neck. Sarge comes back stronger and begins destroying the Lighthouse, trying to escape. As Daisy prepares to kill him, he calls her "Skye." Daisy realizes Coulson really is in there, so she calms him down and sees him as an ally. Imprisoned in the temple, Izel demands Mack and Yo-Yo recreate the Monoliths' solid forms. They refuse, but are shocked when Flint suddenly appears. Meanwhile, the Chronicoms have learned new information. While Atarah still wishes to save Chronyca-2, Malachi wishes to establish a Chronyca-3, so he kills Atarah and sends other Chronicoms after two targets.
122	12	"The Sign"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	August2,2019	1.88
Izel possesses Flint to rebuild the Monoliths, creating a portal where her people await a sign to invade Earth before breaking Flint's leg and sending out a Shrike army for more hosts. Deke brings his tech company staff to the Lighthouse to mass-produce the devices needed to counter Izel and turn Sarge's daggers into Shrike-killing bullets. May, Sarge, Piper, and Daisy take a Quinjet to the temple. Daisy leads the Shrike-infected zombies away while May and Sarge go to confront Izel. Fed up that nobody respects him, Deke uses his stolen jump-drive to go to the temple himself and free Mack, Yo-Yo, and Flint. Despite not having enough power for a return trip, he manages to set up a camera to show Fitz and Simmons what Izel is doing and make it to the Quinjet on foot. Mack and Yo-Yo have Piper fly Flint to safety, but zombies trap them and Daisy in the Zephyr. Sarge and May face Izel, but Sarge cannot kill her. Confused about the pain he is in, May tells Sarge it's love for the team, but he stabs her and sends her through the portal as the sign, embracing Pachakutiq. Meanwhile, Enoch meets with his contact on Kitson, who tells him all the Chronicoms are now hunters and attacks him.
123	13	"New Life"	Kevin Tancharoen	Brent Fletcher & Jed Whedon	August2,2019	1.88
Fitz and Simmons tell the field team what happened to May, but communications are shut off and the Lighthouse is put on lockdown. Malachi and the Chronicoms attack, using Fitz and Simmons' knowledge to anticipate their every move. Barricaded in a room with Framework tech, Fitz and Simmons prepare to sacrifice themselves to destroy it so the Chronicoms can't use it, but a disguised Enoch saves them and proposes a plan. With the Zephyr disabled, Mack has Deke fly the Quinjet to them, but Yo-Yo is infected by a Shrike. In between realms, where life and death don't matter, May destroys three hooded figures before they can let Izel's kind through. Izel herself appears and overpowers her to establish the connection. Daisy, Mack, and Yo-Yo battle Pachakutiq, but are no match for him. Izel reappears, but May stabs her from behind, killing her and freeing Yo-Yo. Mack kills Pachakutiq, closing the portal. As May slowly dies, Simmons appears with a team and an upgraded Zephyr, putting May in a stasis pod. Everyone evacuates before the Chronicoms destroy the temple and Monoliths. Fitz remotely sends them to safety with an upgraded jump-drive, landing them several decades in the past above Manhattan. Simmons explains that the Chronicoms know everything about S.H.I.E.L.D. and that they need an expert to help them fight back, revealing a Chronicom tech-enhanced Coulson LMD.
Close ▲
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 7)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 1)
Pilot (Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (season 7)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The seventh and final season of the American television series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., based on the Marvel Comics organization S.H.I.E.L.D., follows S.H.I.E.L.D. agents and allies as they try to prevent an alien occupation while stranded in time. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and acknowledges the continuity of the franchise's films. The season was produced by ABC Studios, Marvel Television, and Mutant Enemy Productions, with Jed Whedon, Maurissa Tancharoen, and Jeffrey Bell serving as showrunners.

Quick facts: Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Starring, Country of ... ▼
Close ▲
Clark Gregg stars as a Life Model Decoy of agent Phil Coulson, reprising his role from the film series, alongside returning series regulars Ming-Na Wen, Chloe Bennet, Elizabeth Henstridge, Henry Simmons, Natalia Cordova-Buckley, and Jeff Ward. Iain De Caestecker also appears in the season in a limited role. The final season was ordered in November 2018, ahead of the sixth season premiere, and filming took place from February to July 2019. Post-production work on the season was completed that October. The season uses time travel to explore the history of S.H.I.E.L.D., and to tie up threads left by previous seasons.

The seventh season premiered on ABC on May 27, 2020, and ran for 13 episodes until August 12, 2020. Though the season earned the series' lowest viewership, critical reception was positive. Critics commended the season's ability to explore different genres and settings through its time travel storyline and felt it served as a satisfactory conclusion for viewers, but were critical of the limited role Leo Fitz took in the season.

Episodes
Main article: List of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
124	1	"The New Deal"	Kevin Tancharoen	George Kitson	May27,2020	1.82
In 1931 New York City, several Chronicoms steal the faces of three police officers and kill a contact from a local speakeasy. S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Jemma Simmons introduces Director Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie and agent Daisy Johnson to an LMD version of Phil Coulson, who struggles with his existence and the amount of information uploaded into him. Daisy and Deke Shaw investigate the faceless officers and are attacked by the Chronicoms, but they overpower one and take him back to the Zephyr. Coulson and Mack investigate the speakeasy and meet its owner, Ernest "Hazard" Koenig, who reveals that the police officers are providing security for a function in honor of Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt. Simmons overloads the Chronicom's mind, forcing it to reveal their actual target: Koenig's employee Wilfred "Freddy" Malick, father of future Hydra leader Gideon Malick. The team rescues Freddy from the Chronicoms and realize they have to save Hydra to ensure S.H.I.E.L.D.'s future. On the Zephyr, the Chronicom Enoch, an ally of S.H.I.E.L.D., helps heal Agent Melinda May.
125	2	"Know Your Onions"	Eric Laneuville	Craig Titley	June3,2020	1.50
Deke and Mack promise to keep Freddy safe, traveling with him by train to make a delivery. The other agents regroup at Koenig's speakeasy and interrogate Freddy's contact, Viola; learning she is a Hydra agent and that Freddy is carrying what will become Hydra's super soldier serum. They return to the Zephyr, where Enoch attempts to prevent an erratic May from leaving the ship. Coulson stops her, but she reacts apathetically to his presence. Koenig helps direct the team to Freddy's delivery location, learning of S.H.I.E.L.D., Chronicoms, and time travel in the process. Daisy contacts Deke and tells him to kill Freddy to stop Hydra's rise, but Mack prevents this. Koenig tries to stop Freddy from making the delivery, but Freddy shoots him and leaves with a Hydra agent, securing their future. The Zephyr unexpectedly time travels to follow the Chronicoms through the next time window, leaving Enoch behind. Despite this, he is hired by the recovering Koenig and agrees to tell him more about S.H.I.E.L.D. and robotics.
126	3	"Alien Commies from the Future!"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	Nora Zuckerman & Lilla Zuckerman	June10,2020	1.57
The agents end up in 1955 near Area 51, a S.H.I.E.L.D. base currently working on Project Helius, an ion fusion reactor prototype. The agents kidnap high ranking agent Gerald Sharpe and have Coulson impersonate him while Simmons impersonates Peggy Carter so they can find the Chronicom infiltrators. However, they run into Carter's former partner Daniel Sousa, who outs them. Despite putting up resistance and his racism towards part of the team, Sharpe eventually reveals that Helius cannot function without a powerful energy source, leading Deke to deduce that the Chronicoms plan to sacrifice one of their own to activate the weapon and destroy the base. Daisy arrives undercover and convinces Sousa to release her teammates just as the undercover Chronicoms enact their plan. Daisy and Simmons improve a S.H.I.E.L.D. EMP device in time to disable Helius, along with the entire base, the Chronicoms, and Coulson. Mack and Deke return Sharpe to the desert and pose as aliens to avoid changing history.
127	4	"Out of the Past"	Garry A. Brown	Mark Leitner	June17,2020	1.40
Coulson wakes up in Sousa's custody with a system glitch that makes him see in black and white and hear an internal monologue (in the style of a film noir). He realizes that the current date is the day Sousa dies while delivering a device to Howard Stark. Coulson calls the Zephyr with the help of Enoch at the speakeasy. Elena "Yo-Yo" Rodriguez and Deke find the device, but the latter is captured by Hydra. He is taken to an older Wilfred Malick, who spares Deke's life since Deke spared his in 1931. Yo-Yo and Simmons discover that May experiences other people's emotions. Mack, Coulson, and Daisy realize that Sousa is killed by Hydra to prevent him from exposing their presence within S.H.I.E.L.D. They decide to change history and save Sousa; after he delivers the device, Coulson knocks Sousa unconscious and fakes his death. Sousa wakes up on the Zephyr and a repaired Coulson explains their situation. They travel forward in time again, while a Chronicom stays behind in 1955 and offers to help Malick.
128	5	"A Trout in the Milk"	Stan Brooks	Iden Baghdadchi	June24,2020	1.37
In 1973, the agents return to the speakeasy to discover that S.H.I.E.L.D. is preparing Project Insight, which should not be developed for several more decades, led by Wilfred Malick, who should have died in 1970. Wilfred and the Chronicoms attempt to capture the agents, but Daisy briefly takes his son Nathaniel (who also should be dead) hostage to allow their escape. Nathaniel sees Daisy use her powers. The agents reunite with Enoch and return to the Zephyr. Without warning, the Chronicoms jump forward to 1976 when Project Insight is set to launch, and the Zephyr follows. Coulson and May plant explosives in the Lighthouse where Insight is being launched while Deke and Yo-Yo confront Wilfred, who is killed by Deke. Daisy and Sousa are captured by Nathaniel. Mack aborts the detonation when he sees his parents, John and Lilla, are being held captive, allowing Insight to launch. The agents use the Zephyr to destroy Insight, giving away their location. Nathaniel attempts to call Daniel Whitehall to transfer Daisy's powers to himself.
129	6	"Adapt or Die"	Aprill Winney	DJ Doyle	July1,2020	1.32
The Lighthouse automatically fires missiles at the Zephyr, damaging the time drive. While Deke, Simmons, and Enoch repair it, Deke discovers that Simmons has a memory implant that blocks her knowledge of Leo Fitz's location while retaining information on time travel. Nathaniel experiments on Daisy and transfers her powers to himself, but he is overwhelmed by them as they destroy the building he is in, allowing Sousa to get Daisy back to the Zephyr. May uses her powers to identify undercover Chronicoms while she and Coulson rescue General Rick Stoner, and Coulson finds the Chronicoms' ship. He speaks with their predictor, Sibyl, before blowing up the ship with himself and many of the Chronicoms in it. Mack and Yo-Yo discover that Mack's parents are already dead and being impersonated by Chronicoms, forcing Mack to throw them from the Quinjet. The Zephyr jumps to 1982, and Mack steps out to mourn. Deke checks on him, but they are stranded when the Zephyr suddenly jumps through time.
130	7	"The Totally Excellent Adventures of Mack and The D"	Jesse Bochco	Brent Fletcher	July8,2020	1.39
Stuck in 1982, a despondent Mack spends the next year alone in grief. Deke checks in on Mack occasionally, and eventually convinces him to come see Deke's new band, The Deke Squad, which include Olga Pachinko, Roxy Glass, Cricket and twins Ronnie and Tommy Chang, which performs 80s' classics that have not been written yet. Deke reveals that he has secretly been training the members of the band to be S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, and that Coulson's consciousness has been saved on a hard drive. Meanwhile, Sibyl's consciousness also survived, and she uses a lonely programmer to construct a crude body for herself. She then creates new "hunter" robots that kill the programmer before invading the Lighthouse in search of the time stream that Sibyl uses to predict the future. Mack helps Deke and the new agents defeat the hunters, unaware that a small robot escaped with the time stream. The Zephyr re-appears long enough for May and Yo-Yo to reunite with Mack and Deke. The latter recounts the past year's events to May. The small robot takes the time stream to Nathaniel, who survived the collapse and is now working with Sibyl.
131	8	"After, Before"	Eli Gonda	James C. Oliver & Sharla Oliver	July15,2020	1.38
After rescuing Mack, Deke, and Coulson, Simmons informs the team that the time drive keeps jumping them forward by less time until it will eventually collapse on them. Needing Yo-Yo's currently inactive powers to deactivate it, Daisy suggests stopping by Afterlife to get help from her mother Jiaying. Yo-Yo and May arrive to discover that Jiaying is in the process of helping a despondent Inhuman named Kora with her volatile energy powers. After examining Yo-Yo, Jiaying comes to the conclusion that her problems are mental rather than physical and has May use her empath abilities on her. Yo-Yo reveals that she witnessed the death of her uncle and has since blamed herself for it. Nathaniel arrives and recruits Kora in taking over Afterlife. Yo-Yo, May, Jiaying, and young Inhuman Gordon are forced to flee. Upon arriving back at the Zephyr, Yo-Yo realizes that she has been holding herself back and successfully deactivates the time drive. As the crew settles in, the time drive suddenly starts up, causing the Zephyr to unexpectedly jump again.
132	9	"As I Have Always Been"	Elizabeth Henstridge	Drew Z. Greenberg	July22,2020	1.28
The Zephyr gets trapped in a time vortex as Daisy wakes up from her cryo-chamber. After witnessing several events happen, time suddenly restarts and she realizes that she is trapped in a time loop as the Zephyr gets closer to the center of the vortex with every passing loop. She learns that Coulson is also aware and has been in the loop longer, though Daisy forgets everything when she dies. Daisy and Coulson learn about Simmons' memory implant, but when they try to remove it, a freak accident kills her. The deaths appear to be orchestrated and Coulson concludes that Enoch, who was programmed to protect Simmons' implant, has been unwillingly killing them. After several failed attempts, they eventually manage to remove the implant and Simmons informs them that Enoch's power mechanism can fix the time drive, though at the cost of his life. In the final loop, Enoch willingly gives up his mechanism and dies, but not before revealing to Daisy that this will be their final mission as a team. Meanwhile, Nathaniel helps Kora control her powers.
133	10	"Stolen"	Garry A. Brown	Story by: Mark Linehan Bruner
Teleplay by: George Kitson & Mark Leitner	July29,2020	1.30
Nathaniel recruits a young John Garrett, who turned against S.H.I.E.L.D. and was killed by Coulson in the original timeline. Nathaniel shows him this future while perfecting a way to transfer Inhuman powers to his men. S.H.I.E.L.D. keeps Jiaying at the Lighthouse for protection. Daisy learns that Kora is her half-sister, who died before Daisy was born in the original timeline. She spends time with Jiaying but does not tell her that she is her daughter. Coulson and Gordon teleport into Afterlife, but Nathaniel anticipates this and captures them. He transfers Gordon's powers to Garrett, killing the former in the process. Garrett teleports Nathaniel to the Lighthouse, while Yo-Yo and Mack rescue the captive Inhumans and Coulson. The latter takes Kora captive. Nathaniel reveals to Jiaying that Daisy is her daughter, before killing Jiaying and fleeing. Garrett kidnaps Simmons as he and Nathaniel steal the Zephyr, unaware that Deke is still aboard. Nathaniel explains his plan to have Simmons tell them where Fitz is, as he is the only one who can stop them.
134	11	"Brand New Day"	Keith Potter	Chris Freyer	August5,2020	1.25
Kora claims that she wants to work with S.H.I.E.L.D., despite the agents deducing that she has ulterior motives. Knowing that Sibyl is aware of their every move, Daisy, Sousa and Mack decide to act unpredictably and take a quinjet to follow Nathaniel and the Zephyr into space. Nathaniel attempts to glean information from Simmons by using Deke as leverage, but is unable to find Fitz's location in her memories. His actions cause Simmons to forget who Fitz is completely. May interrogates Kora, who shuts down the Lighthouse's power, allowing Sibyl to hack into the mainframe. Coulson realizes that he can read the computer code that she is using and tries to shut her out. Kora suggests using their future knowledge to go after those who deserve to be killed, but May shows her Jiaying's body and she lashes out, only to be teleported by Garrett back to the Zephyr. Daisy, Sousa, and Mack watch as a Chronicom fleet arrives to meet the Zephyr. The Chronicoms use the information that Sibyl stole to destroy S.H.I.E.L.D.'s facilities around the world.
135	12	"The End Is at Hand"	Chris Cheramie	Jeffrey Bell	August12,2020	1.46
Upon landing on the Chronicom ship, Daisy searches for Deke and Simmons while Sousa and Mack fend off a group of Chronicom soldiers. Sibyl plans for Daisy to find Simmons to jog her memory, but an impatient Nathaniel has Kora confront them. Daisy talks Kora down and she lets them escape, forcing Nathaniel to knock her out and have her powers transferred to him. The agents return to the Zephyr and escape the ship. With the Lighthouse the only S.H.I.E.L.D. base still standing, Garrett plants bombs to destroy it, but Coulson, Yo-Yo, and May capture him and neutralize his powers. When they force Garrett to stop the explosion, Nathaniel leaves Garrett to die, but they all manage to survive. Garrett decides to join the agents and teleport them to the speakeasy, only to be killed by other agents who arrived there to hide. Everyone regroups and, with Simmons' help, create a "key" that she was struggling to remember. The key opens a portal that brings Fitz to them, but he is disappointed to learn Simmons does not remember him.
136	13	"What We're Fighting For"	Kevin Tancharoen	Jed Whedon	August12,2020	1.46
Fitz explains that he has traveled from their original timeline to this new one using the Quantum Realm. Deke decides to remain in the new timeline to help send the others and the Chronicoms back to the original one, becoming the new leader of S.H.I.E.L.D. When they arrive back in the original timeline, Fitz helps Simmons remember him and the life they lived while they were building the time machine, including their daughter Alya. Coulson, May, Mack, and Daisy infiltrate the Chronicoms' ship to rescue Kora and confront Nathaniel. May and Kora combine their abilities to give empathy to the Chronicoms, ending their assault. Daisy fights Nathaniel before destroying the Chronicoms' ships, killing him and Sibyl. The agents find Daisy in space, and Kora revives her. One year later, Fitz and Simmons have retired to raise Alya; May is a professor at S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Coulson Academy; Mack continues to lead S.H.I.E.L.D., with Yo-Yo as one of his top agents; Daisy is exploring the cosmos with Sousa and Kora; and Coulson decides to travel the world.
Close ▲
Production
Development
In November 2018, ahead of the release of its sixth season, ABC renewed Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. for a seventh. This early renewal was a surprise following the series' low rated fifth season, but Deadline Hollywood reported that it was likely due to the cast's contract negotiations and would help reduce costs by filming the sixth and seventh seasons back-to-back. Marvel Television head Jeph Loeb said the series' crew had expected the shorter sixth season to be its last and were also surprised by the seventh season renewal. He attributed the decision to ABC watching early work on season six and believing the crew had found "another wave of energy" that they wanted to see continue.

Responding to new rumors in March 2019 that the series would end with its seventh season, Loeb stated, "We're not ending." However, ahead of the series' San Diego Comic-Con panel in July 2019, Loeb announced that the seventh season would be the series' last. He explained that the cast and crew had originally expected the series to end with the fifth season, and had put other plans on hold to make the sixth. When ABC wanted to renew the series for a seventh season, they agreed to return if it could be the final season. Having this knowledge allowed them to build the season specifically to "tie up any threads" and try to create a satisfying conclusion to the story. Although each episode of the season was allocated the same budget by ABC, the producers worked with the network to reallocate the budget across the season, to have the "backlot period costumes, which energized everybody and got everyone really excited" for the early episodes, and to save enough for the final episodes so the series could "go out with some scope and style".

Writing
Showrunners Jed Whedon, Maurissa Tancharoen, and Jeffrey Bell, as well as the series' writers, chose to use time travel in the final season because visiting earlier time periods was the "only thing left on the list" for them and it allowed them to explore the history of S.H.I.E.L.D. and revisit elements from throughout the series. The writers looked at other films and television series that have used time travel to see where they went wrong, and over or under explained concepts. They hoped to make a cohesive narrative for the season that was a "love poem" to the series and the fans. The story picks up from the sixth season's cliffhanger ending, which the writers were able to plan since the seventh season was ordered while they were working on the sixth. It features the team trying to save the world from invasion by the Chronicoms, a recurring subplot in the sixth season. The seventh season begins in 1930s New York, prior to the formation of S.H.I.E.L.D., before exploring more time periods, such as the 1950s and 1980s. Unlike earlier seasons, the seventh is not broken up into different "pods" due to its shorter 13-episode run. The writers tried to create more episodes in the season that were "outside of [their] normal form of storytelling", like the third season episode "4,722 Hours". Whedon felt that the season ended up using more of the writers' fun pitches that previously would have been dismissed, with Bell feeling the season was "more joyous" than in past seasons.

Phil Coulson is a Life Model Decoy (LMD) in the season after the events at the end of season six, despite star Clark Gregg explaining that the actual Coulson never wanted to be turned into an LMD. Gregg did not want the character to become similar to Data from Star Trek, "the cyber being following [the team] around doing fast math". The writers found a different way to approach the character while still addressing "some of the stuff that classic AI characters have dealt with in the past", such as questioning his feelings and existence. Whedon added that the Coulson LMD "feels the same" as the actual Coulson, and he goes through "some virtual soul-searching" according to Gregg. Chloe Bennet said much of the season references back to the first season and the notion that "not all heroes are super". Bennet added that Daisy Johnson is more like her Skye personality in the season now she is "more comfortable with who she is ... what she wants to do is be with the people that she loves and cares about, and save the world." Daniel Sousa becomes a love interest for Daisy in the season. Fulfilling the promise the writers had to give Daisy a love interest each season, they felt Sousa as a "man out of time" would work. Bennet was "hesitant" for her character to get another love interest, feeling her journey throughout the season was "about finding herself" and exploring her relationship with Coulson and her S.H.I.E.L.D. family. Yet, Sousa arrives and complements Daisy "in a way that she's completely taken off guard by", which Bennet felt was the only way a relationship would happen for Daisy. Sousa also forms a friendship with Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie.

Natalia Cordova-Buckley said in the season, Elena "Yo-Yo" Rodriguez "sits back and becomes a team member", supporting Director Mack. Rodriguez has less of a personal struggle in the season than in the past "because she owns who she is and she's now decided to be part of the force, as a unit and not as an individual". Regarding her relationship with Mack, Cordova-Buckley said the season would show "the true conclusion of their relationship, in terms of it getting really rooted and grounded". Through Deke Shaw, a man out of time, the series was able to address the various social and racial issues in the different time periods the team visits, such as him "understanding or coming to terms with the concept of white privilege or pointing out how absurd it is that there is any sort of inequality or racial inequality." The absence of Leo Fitz for much of the season allowed the writers to bring Jemma Simmons and her grandson Deke Shaw closer together. The season was built with the character's absence in mind, and with the concept, once he returned, no time would have passed for the character". Fitz's absence also "made the eventual payoff all the more powerful", as it is revealed he and Simmons have a daughter. Whedon said "we did what we could, and we tried to make it rewarding with the pieces [we were given]. Sometimes it's 3D chess," continuing that the solution was to give the couple a "super-happy ending". The writers were always going to give Fitz and Simmons a happy ending, despite the many obstacles the couple faced throughout the series, since they were the series' "forever love". The happy ending was "a way to give the audience something that they wanted" as well.

Tancharoen said they "had no idea" the ending of the series, in which the S.H.I.E.L.D. team virtually reconnect with each other, was "predicting the near future" of Zoom calls and social distancing, which came about because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Whedon added that had the season been in development during the pandemic, a virus storyline would have been included and the season would have had a different tone.

Casting
With the season renewal, main cast members Ming-Na Wen, Chloe Bennet, Iain De Caestecker, Elizabeth Henstridge, Henry Simmons, Natalia Cordova-Buckley, and Jeff Ward were confirmed to be returning from previous seasons as Melinda May, Daisy Johnson / Quake, Leo Fitz, Jemma Simmons, Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie, Elena "Yo-Yo" Rodriguez, and Deke Shaw, respectively. The renewal did not include series' star Clark Gregg, but Jed Whedon stated in April 2019 that the producers "firmly believe that any season would have to have him in it". The end of the sixth season revealed that a Life Model Decoy of Phil Coulson would appear in the seventh season, with Gregg starring as the new version of his character. This was the writers' solution to wanting to bring the character back without reversing the stakes of his death after the fifth season.

Despite being announced as a main cast member for the season, De Caestecker does not appear in the first ten episodes, as he was committed to other projects, creating scheduling conflicts. Whedon stated the choice was De Caestecker's, with Tancharoen adding "it was time for him to go [and] explore new things". He first appears in flashback sequences in "Brand New Day". De Caestecker received special guest star credit for his appearances in the season.

Joel Stoffer returns from past seasons in the recurring role of Enoch, a Chronicom ally of S.H.I.E.L.D., while Tobias Jelinek appears as antagonistic Chronicom Luke, and Tamara Taylor portrays the Chronicom predictor Sibyl. The seventh season introduces the character Wilfred "Freddy" Malick, father of Gideon Malick who appeared in the third season. Wilfred is portrayed by Darren Barnet in 1931 and Neal Bledsoe beginning in 1955. Cameron Palatas reprises his role as a young Gideon Malick from the third season, while Thomas E. Sullivan takes on the role of Wilfred's other son Nathaniel, who was portrayed by Joel Dabney Courtney in the third season. In August 2019, Hayley Atwell was reported to be reprising her role as Peggy Carter alongside Enver Gjokaj as agent Daniel Sousa from the series Agent Carter. Atwell later denied that she was involved with the final season, while Gjokaj's casting was confirmed in April 2020. Whedon and Tancharoen had previously worked with Gjokaj on Dollhouse and were excited to explore his character further on Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Bell said Sousa would be seen in a "different light" in the season. Whedon added that having Sousa allows Coulson, a "fanboy for S.H.I.E.L.D. history", to interact with that history. Gjokaj initially said he was uncertain how long his commitment for the season would be, saying he was being used "on an episode-by-episode basis". He ultimately appears in 10 episodes in the season, and Bell later stated that it was the producer's plan to make it appear that Gjokaj would only feature in one episode of the season in order to "surprise people" when he had a recurring role. Additionally, Dianne Doan recurs as Kora, Daisy's half-sister.

In August 2019, Patrick Warburton was revealed to be reprising his season five role of Rick Stoner for the final season, and Patton Oswalt was revealed to be returning for the season in May 2020, portraying Ernest "Hazard" Koenig in 1931. He is the ancestor of the various present-day Koenig siblings that Oswalt portrayed in previous seasons. Dichen Lachman also reprises her season two role as Daisy's mother Jiaying, while Fin Argus plays a young version of Gordon, an Inhuman working with Jiaying. Philip Labe portrayed young Gordon in the second season, while Jamie Harris portrayed him as an adult. In July 2020, Gregg discussed actors that he wished could return for the seventh season, including Bill Paxton who portrayed John Garrett in the series' first season before his death in February 2017. Gregg said it would be "really amazing if there was some way to feel like we had the spirit of Bill Paxton with us" and teased that could happen in the season. Later that month, Paxton's son James Paxton was revealed to be guest starring in the season as a younger version of John Garrett. Briana Venskus, Maximilian Osinski, and Coy Stewart reprise their roles from previous seasons, respectively as Piper, Davis, and Flint, in the series finale. Rachele Schank also appears as a young Victoria Hand, a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, who was portrayed in the first season by Saffron Burrows.

Design
Costumes
Costume designer Whitney Galitz was joined by Jessica Torok during the season, before Torok took over after Galitz left the series to give birth to her daughter.

Title sequence
Nearly every episode features title cards reflective of the time period visited throughout the season. The first two episodes, "The New Deal" and "Know Your Onions", have an "old-style noir" title card reflecting the 1930s setting of the episodes, while the third episode features a title card with font that "appears to be lifted from a classic alien invasion movie", evoking the style of 1950s "classic sci-fi". The fourth episode, again set in the 1950s, has a film noir style, including being in black and white and featuring an opening sequence that is an homage to Sunset Boulevard's (1950) "iconic" opening. The episode's title card is a "throwback-style credit intro". For "A Trout in the Milk", a 1970s-themed opening was used, and was the first opening sequence of the series to include "actual opening credits" along with voiceover introductions. Each actor's name featured clips of their character from past seasons. The seventh episode sees "Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D." being typed on a black computer screen, referencing the "tech and hacker movies" of the 1980s. "After, Before" introduces an opening sequence the evokes Tron (1982) and Back to the Future (1985). The bright blue logo "travels across a black digital landscape made up of an orange and blue grid" which features coordinates, dates, and ticking clocks.

Filming
Production for the season began at the end of February 2019, in Culver City, California. Elizabeth Henstridge made her directorial debut with the episode "As I Have Always Been", which she said was "different than anything [the series has] done before", resulting in it being shot "in a whole new way". Filming wrapped on July 30, 2019. Post-production work on the final episode was completed around October 7, 2019.

Music
After contributing additional music to earlier seasons, Jason Akers is credited as co-composer for the seventh season alongside the series' original composer Bear McCreary. McCreary said Akers "knew the show like an encyclopedia", and added that he was grateful that he decided to promote Akers as co-composer because of the many "creative and logistical challenges" that the pair faced during the season. The composers introduced a new time travel theme in the season that uses 5
4 time. It was created to be a "consistent and memorable" through line for all the various musical genres featured in the season, which include "1940s noire saxophones, 1950s theremin, 1970s wah-wah guitar and bongos, and 1980s synths". The two composers worked to blend each of these different styles with the series' "pre-established classic orchestra and contemporary electronics".

Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
In August 2019, Whedon and Tancharoen indicated that there would be a connection to the MCU in the final season. The various time periods visited in the season allowed the writers to incorporate different Marvel-related Easter eggs. In the third episode, which features Daniel Sousa, references are made to the second season of Agent Carter, including the defeat of Hugh Jones and the Council of Nine. The fifth episode depicts "Project Insight", a major plot point in Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), as taking place in the 1970s due to the Chronicoms changing history.

Instead of using the Quantum Realm to travel between different points in time as depicted in Avengers: Endgame (2019), the characters initially follow the Chronicoms through "tides", which are "critical launch windows leading to specific points in time and space". Discussing the apparent inconsistencies with Endgame earlier in the season, Thomas Bacon from Screen Rant noted that the time travel rules in the film were changed during production and were not completely consistent within that film, and opined that the series' explanation could help clarify the film's rules. Bacon suggested that the film's explanation that changing the past cannot change the future aligned with the series' idea that small ripples in the timestream would not change the overall flow of time, while the film's statement that removing the Infinity Stones from the timeline would create alternate realities with significant changes aligned with the series' idea that large changes would create a different future. As the season progresses, the S.H.I.E.L.D. team and the Chronicoms ultimately alter events in the past, creating a new timeline. After doing so, the team tries to ensure events in this new timeline happen correctly, such as protecting Jiaying from Nathaniel Malick to ensure Daisy is born. Jamie Jirak at ComicBook.com felt this was consistent with Endgame's time travel rules. In the season finale, Fitz confirms that the team was operating in a branched timeline and helped them return to the original timeline by traveling through the Quantum Realm.

Marketing
The first footage of the season was released in August 2019 at the D23 Expo. A new teaser and poster for the season were released to coincide with the season's premiere date announcement in mid-April 2020, with the poster featuring an "old-school" 1950s S.H.I.E.L.D. logo due to the season returning to that era via time travel. A week later, the main poster for the season was released featuring art by Kyle Lambert. The poster depicts the season's main cast members in costumes from the different time periods that are visited throughout the season, with Marvel specifically asking Lambert to reflect the costumes and sets that were created for the series. The poster marketed the season as "The Final Mission". Jake Abbate at SuperHeroHype and Sam Stone of Comic Book Resources both compared the poster to the work of movie poster artist Drew Struzan.

Release
Broadcast
The seventh season began airing on ABC in the United States on May 27, 2020, and ran for 13 episodes, until August 12, 2020. In the United Kingdom, E4, which had aired the series since season three, announced they had no plans to air season seven. The season was instead released on Disney+, starting with the first two episodes on November 13, 2020, and the remaining episodes following weekly.

Home media
The season began streaming on Netflix in the United States on October 30, 2020, and was available until February 28, 2022. It became available on Disney+ in the United States on March 16, 2022, joining other territories where it was already available on the service.

Reception
Ratings
Table info: No., Title, Air date, Rating(18–49), Viewers(... ▼
NO.	TITLE	AIR DATE	RATING
(18–49)	VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	DVR
(18–49)	DVR VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	TOTAL
(18–49)	TOTAL VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)
1	"The New Deal"	May 27, 2020	0.3	1.82	0.3	1.15	0.6	2.97
2	"Know Your Onions"	June 3, 2020	0.3	1.50	0.3	1.03	0.6	2.53
3	"Alien Commies from the Future!"	June 10, 2020	0.3	1.57	0.3	1.09	0.6	2.66
4	"Out of the Past"	June 17, 2020	0.3	1.40	0.3	1.07	0.6	2.47
5	"A Trout in the Milk"	June 24, 2020	0.2	1.37	0.3	1.05	0.5	2.42
6	"Adapt or Die"	July 1, 2020	0.3	1.32	0.3	1.06	0.6	2.38
7	"The Totally Excellent Adventures of Mack and The D"	July 8, 2020	0.3	1.39	0.3	1.05	0.6	2.44
8	"After, Before"	July 15, 2020	0.3	1.38	0.3	1.08	0.6	2.46
9	"As I Have Always Been"	July 22, 2020	0.3	1.28	0.3	1.07	0.6	2.35
10	"Stolen"	July 29, 2020	0.3	1.30	0.3	1.01	0.6	2.32
11	"Brand New Day"	August 5, 2020	0.3	1.25	0.3	1.09	0.6	2.34
12	"The End Is at Hand"	August 12, 2020	0.3	1.46	0.3	1.00	0.6	2.46
13	"What We're Fighting For"	August 12, 2020	0.3	1.46	0.3	1.00	0.6	2.46
Close ▲
Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 100% approval rating, with an average score of 8/10, based on 15 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "Heartfelt and held together by the strength of its super cast's chemistry, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s final season is a fitting farewell to a beloved team."

Alex McLevy of The A.V. Club felt the season was giving off "strong Legends of Tomorrow vibes", saying, "The rollicking nature of its time-travel adventures, fused with a slightly more absurdist sensibility than past seasons, is giving these episodes the feel of a victory lap, the show loosening up and enjoying its high-concept potential without the worry of delivering the goods to ensure another year." Ian Cardona of Comic Book Resources felt by having Coulson return (albeit as an LMD) and once again utilizing Hydra as an antagonist brought the series "back-to-basics" while still maintaining the fun nature of the series. Each member of the team was allowed "to shine" and "the focus is solely on the characters and the mission, which helps to create a tightly-knit adventure that doesn't waste any time." Dave Vitagliano from Den of Geek said, "Even though season seven doesn't rank among the series' best efforts, taken as a whole, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. ends its 136-episode run as one of the most successful science fiction superhero television offerings and earns top grades overall."

Writing for io9, Rob Bricken felt by following Avengers: Endgame, which used time travel to adjust and determine the continuity of the MCU, allowed the season to benefit from Endgame's "decision to free the MCU from the shackles of continuity. The show has been able to go through its Legends of Tomorrow-esque jaunt through the 20th century with the freedom to tell whatever story it wants and leave as many chronal messes as that story needs," making the season "become as good and fun as the show's ever been." Bricken concluded that the time travel of the season could have looked "very different" had Endgame not done it first, since "Disney, ABC, and Marvel Studios wouldn't have approved anything that even appeared like the TV series was having some effect on the MCU proper, no matter how minor." Given the impact the COVID-19 pandemic had on delaying the start of Marvel Studios' Phase Four out of 2020, Ani Bundel of Collider called the season "Marvel's best release of 2020", despite being treated "as an afterthought". Bundel added it was "remarkable" the season was able to succeed in acknowledging elements from seasons past without leaving anything out, and felt the including Sousa was a successful tribute to Agent Carter. Bundel concluded the season "happily stepped up to fulfill fans' expectations, just as it has tirelessly for years. It's a triumphant ending for a series everyone wrote off at one point or another."

Absence of Fitz
Fitz does not appear in the season until the eleventh episode, due to De Caestecker committing to another project when the season started filming. Ian Sandwell at Digital Spy felt it was "a mistake" to have Fitz and Simmons apart, with it feeling "as though Fitz is missing because it's what the show does – and not because it's a necessary story mechanic." Sandwell felt with the couple separated, as a "key element" of the series, it was hard for the final season to be the "victory lap and celebration" it should. After the fifth episode of the season, McLevy said "the show better start paying dividends... on [the FitzSimmons] story, because it has cut its own legs out from underneath by dragging out Fitz's absence this long." While sympathetic to De Caestecker taking time to work on other projects, McLevy called the extended absence "ridiculous" at the halfway point of the season, since Fitz's absence "isn't making for great drama any more... By trying to have its keep-the-best-couple-apart cake and eat its mysterious-transformation too, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. lessens the impact of both. Right now, it's just [Jemma Simmons] failing to express any concern for the biggest person in her life, and without revealing the causes for that, the storyline gradually deflates from the delay." McLevy later added the "couple was the biggest emotional investment the show ever created, and they've just sputtered it out in the final two seasons." Syfy Wire's Trent Moore stated it was "impossible to overestimate how much [Fitz's] presence has been missed this year". On the prospect of potentially seeing Fitz in the eleventh episode, Entertainment Weekly's Christan Houlb said, "this better be one of the greatest plot twists of all time to justify leaving one of the show's central characters out of the entire final season and crippling the show's most compelling relationship in the process."

Accolades
Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2021	Golden Reel Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Episodic Short Form – Dialogue/ADR	"What We're Fighting For"	Nominated
Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Episodic Short Form – Effects / Foley	"What We're Fighting For"	Nominated
Close ▲
In July 2020, TVLine listed Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. as one of the 15 best television series of 2020 so far, explaining that "expectations were measured" for the seventh season but it had proven itself to be "downright fantastic, totally fun and, with each passing episode, an affirmation of" the series' place within the wider MCU.

References
External links
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Marvel Cinematic Universe
S.H.I.E.L.D.
