https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jessica_Jones_(TV_series)

Jessica Jones (TV series)
2015–2019 Marvel Television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Marvel Television
Daredevil (TV series)
Iron Fist (TV series)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Jessica Jones (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Marvel's Jessica Jones is an American television series created by Melissa Rosenberg for the streaming service Netflix, based on the Marvel Comics character Jessica Jones. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), acknowledging the continuity of the franchise's films, and was the second Marvel Netflix series leading to the crossover miniseries The Defenders. The series was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios and Tall Girls Productions, with Rosenberg serving as showrunner. Scott Reynolds was co-showrunner for the third season.

Quick facts: Jessica Jones, Genre, Created by, Based on, S... ▼
Jessica Jones
Jessica_Jones_%28TV_series%29_logo.jpg
Genre
Created by	Melissa Rosenberg
Based on
Jessica Jones
by
Brian Michael Bendis
Michael Gaydos
Starring
Composer	Sean Callery
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	3
No. of episodes	39
Production
Executive producers
S. J. Clarkson (1x01 only)
Liz Friedman
Allie Goss
Kris Henigman
Cindy Holland
Alan Fine
Stan Lee
Joe Quesada
Dan Buckley
Jim Chory
Jeph Loeb
Melissa Rosenberg
Karim Zreik
Brian Michael Bendis
Raelle Tucker
Tom Lieber
Samantha Thomas
Producer	Tim Iacofano
Production location	New York City
Cinematography
Manuel Billeter
Petr Hlinomaz (3x05 only)
Editors
Jonathan Chibnall
Michael N. Knue
Tirsa Hackshaw
Jennifer Barbot
Chris A. Peterson
Shoshanah Tanzer
Trey Ordoñez
Running time	44–56 minutes
Production companies
Marvel Television
ABC Studios
Tall Girls Productions
Original release
Network	Netflix
Release	November 20, 2015–
June 14, 2019
Related
Marvel's Netflix television series
Close ▲
Krysten Ritter stars as Jessica Jones, an ex-superhero turned private investigator who opens her own detective agency, Alias Investigations. Rachael Taylor, Eka Darville, and Carrie-Anne Moss also star, with Mike Colter, Wil Traval, Erin Moriarty, and David Tennant joining them for the first season, J.R. Ramirez, Terry Chen, Leah Gibson, and Janet McTeer joining the cast for the second season, and Benjamin Walker, Sarita Choudhury, Jeremy Bobb, and Tiffany Mack joining for the third season. A version of the series was developed by Rosenberg for ABC in 2010, but the network passed on it. She was reworking it for Netflix by late 2013 as A.K.A. Jessica Jones, with the title later being simplified. Ritter was cast as Jones in December 2014, and the series took specific influence from the character's creators, Brian Michael Bendis and Michael Gaydos. Filming took place in New York City, in areas that still look like old Hell's Kitchen.

The first season was released in its entirety on Netflix on November 20, 2015, followed by the second on March 8, 2018, and the third on June 14, 2019. They were met with positive reviews, and received numerous accolades including a Peabody Award, Hugo Award, and Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award. Netflix canceled Jessica Jones on February 18, 2019; all of the Marvel Netflix series were removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, after Disney regained the license for them. They began streaming on Disney+ from March 16.

Plot
Jessica Jones is a superpowered woman who had a brief superhero career until an incident in which the villainous Kilgrave caused her to kill someone. After that incident, she becomes a private investigator. When Kilgrave resurfaces, Jessica must rise up to stop him.

In the second season, Jessica Jones discovers that her mother is still alive due to the experiments done by Karl Malus.

In the third season, Jessica Jones faces off against Gregory Sallinger, an enemy who is determined to prove that she is a fraud, as well as her adoptive sister turned murderous vigilante Trish Walker.

Cast and characters
Cast of Jessica Jones at the 2015 New York Comic Con. (L to R: Ritter, Colter, Taylor, Moss, Traval, Darville, Moriarty)
Cast of Jessica Jones at the 2015 New York Comic Con. (L to R: Ritter, Colter, Taylor, Moss, Traval, Darville, Moriarty)
Main article: List of Jessica Jones characters
Krysten Ritter as Jessica Jones:
A former superhero with superhuman strength and limited flight suffering from PTSD who runs her own detective agency, Alias Investigations. Showrunner Melissa Rosenberg had Ritter on the top of her list for playing Jones, even when Rosenberg was developing the series for ABC. Marvel Television head Jeph Loeb noted that the character "has real problems with a number of things that she abuses! And we're not shying away from that." Ritter described the character as "very rough around the edges, and dry and sarcastic and a total asshole sometimes. But I think at her core she's a good person." She put on 10 pounds (4.5kg) of muscle for the role. Elizabeth Cappuccino portrayed a young Jessica.
Mike Colter as Luke Cage:
A man with superhuman strength and unbreakable skin, whom Jones encounters in the course of an investigation. Colter put on 30 pounds (14kg) of muscle for the role, and described the character as "a darker, grittier, more tangible character than Iron Man or Thor. He likes to keep things close to his chest, operate on the hush-hush." Colter was pleased and surprised that the audience "got" the character, as Luke "was a man of few words and a lot of subtext," which was refreshing: "we were going for this character in a way that said little but spoke volumes ... I felt people got the subtleties."
Rachael Taylor as Patricia "Trish" Walker:
A former model and child star known as "Patsy", Jones' adoptive sister and best friend who now works as a radio host. Jones' best friend was going to be Carol Danvers when Rosenberg was developing the series at ABC but was changed to Walker due to the changing nature of the MCU and the fact that Danvers would be featured in her own film. Rosenberg ultimately found this to be "much more appropriate ... it was better that [Jessica's] best friend was not someone with powers. It actually ends up being a really great mirror for her." Loeb said, "what's most important is the relationship between [Walker] and Jessica, and how these two women who are [sisters] could be that different, and yet believe in the same kinds of things." At the end of the second season, having become resentful of Jessica's abilities and subsequently killing her mother, Trish acquires powers of enhanced reflexes and agility and becomes a vigilante in the third season, ultimately serving as the season's main antagonist. Catherine Blades portrayed a young Trish.
Wil Traval as Will Simpson:
An NYPD sergeant who is very serious about his job. Traval felt that Simpson sees everything in "black and white" and that "justice can be served easily," an opposite to Jessica, who "deals in a world of gray" that causes the two to have friction between them. Traval described the character as "reinvented" and "reshaped" for the series from the one in the comics, as the comic character was "a little bit too hard to handle. [H]e was just a psychotic crazy guy."
Erin Moriarty as Hope Shlottman:
A student-athlete attending New York University who is a client of Alias Investigations. Moriarty called her character a "polar opposite" to Jessica Jones, describing Hope as "an all-American girl, [innocent and] really earnest." Over the course of the series, the two form a bond, and Jessica becomes protective of Hope due to a shared experience they have with Kilgrave.
Eka Darville as Malcolm Ducasse:
Jones' neighbor who struggles with drug addiction, resulting in his personal journey intertwining with hers. Darville stated Malcolm was a new character for the series, though inspired by "seed characters" from the comics. He also felt playing the character with the drug addiction "was pretty intense and dark" and that Malcolm's relationship with Jessica "is like a flip-flop between victim and savior ... much more [sibling-like] than anything else."
Carrie-Anne Moss as Jeri Hogarth:
An attorney and potentially powerful ally to Jones, who hires Jones for cases. The character's gender was changed from male to female for the series, and the character was made a lesbian. Moss signed on to the series after reading the first two scripts, having been pitched the character by Loeb and Rosenberg. Moss described the character as fierce, strong, and powerful, and "she likes that power." She worked "a few days every episode", which allowed her to grow the character throughout the series, while not knowing what the character would become as she played each moment, which she noted was how real-life is.
David Tennant as Kilgrave:
A man from Jones' past who can control minds. He was born Kevin Thompson and was experimented on as a young child, gaining his powers. Loeb called him "a terrible man who doesn't see himself as terrible" and compared him to Vincent D'Onofrio's Wilson Fisk in Daredevil, saying, "there are going to be times [watching Daredevil] when you're uncomfortable because you're not quite rooting for Matt, you're kind of rooting for Wilson, and it's the same kind of thing you're going to find in Jessica. There's going to be moments where some of the things that she does is pretty questionable. And some of the things that, when you learn about Kilgrave's character and the way that David Tennant plays that character, it's really extraordinary." James Freedson-Jackson portrayed a young Kilgrave.
J. R. Ramirez as Oscar Arocho: A painter and the new superintendent in Jones' building. He is a single father to a young boy named Vido, and he and Jones engage in a relationship.
Terry Chen as Pryce Cheng: A rival private investigator to Jones.
Leah Gibson as Inez Green: A "street-wise" nurse.
Janet McTeer as Alisa Jones:
Jessica's mother, who survived the car accident that killed Jessica's father and brother. She and Jessica were both treated at a private clinic specializing in gene editing, which granted both superhuman abilities. She was declared dead and treated in secret. The extent of her injuries and years of treatment affected her mental stability. The character was first portrayed by Miriam Shor in flashbacks during the first season, before McTeer took over the role as a series regular for the second season.
Benjamin Walker as Erik Gelden:
A man with an enhanced empathic ability to sense the severity of evil in others. He has used his ability to blackmail various people, including Gregory Sallinger. A love interest for Jessica who is also trying to help his sister, Brianna.
Sarita Choudhury as Kith Lyonne: A concert cellist and Jeri's former flame.
Jeremy Bobb as Gregory Sallinger:
A ruthless, hyperintelligent serial killer who has targeted Jessica Jones to expose her as a "fraud" because he believes "supers" have cheated life with their abilities rather than earned things through hard work.
Tiffany Mack as Zaya Okonjo: A junior associate at Hogarth & Associates who Jeri comes to rely on. She is dating Malcolm.
Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally released
1	13	November20,2015
2	13	March8,2018
3	13	June14,2019
Season 1 (2015)
Main article: Jessica Jones (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"AKA Ladies Night"	S. J. Clarkson	Melissa Rosenberg	November20,2015
2	2	"AKA Crush Syndrome"	S. J. Clarkson	Micah Schraft	November20,2015
3	3	"AKA It's Called Whiskey"	David Petrarca	Story by: Liz Friedman
Teleplay by: Liz Friedman & Scott Reynolds	November20,2015
4	4	"AKA 99 Friends"	David Petrarca	Hilly Hicks Jr.	November20,2015
5	5	"AKA The Sandwich Saved Me"	Stephen Surjik	Dana Baratta	November20,2015
6	6	"AKA You're a Winner!"	Stephen Surjik	Edward Ricourt	November20,2015
7	7	"AKA Top Shelf Perverts"	Simon Cellan Jones	Jenna Reback & Micah Schraft	November20,2015
8	8	"AKA WWJD?"	Simon Cellan Jones	Scott Reynolds	November20,2015
9	9	"AKA Sin Bin"	John Dahl	Jamie King & Dana Baratta	November20,2015
10	10	"AKA 1,000 Cuts"	Rosemary Rodriguez	Dana Baratta & Micah Schraft	November20,2015
11	11	"AKA I've Got the Blues"	Uta Briesewitz	Scott Reynolds & Liz Friedman	November20,2015
12	12	"AKA Take a Bloody Number"	Billy Gierhart	Hilly Hicks Jr.	November20,2015
13	13	"AKA Smile"	Michael Rymer	Story by: Jamie King & Scott Reynolds
Teleplay by: Scott Reynolds & Melissa Rosenberg	November20,2015
Close ▲
Season 2 (2018)
Main article: Jessica Jones (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
14	1	"AKA Start at the Beginning"	Anna Foerster	Melissa Rosenberg	March8,2018
15	2	"AKA Freak Accident"	Minkie Spiro	Aïda Mashaka Croal	March8,2018
16	3	"AKA Sole Survivor"	Mairzee Almas	Lisa Randolph	March8,2018
17	4	"AKA God Help the Hobo"	Deborah Chow	Jack Kenny	March8,2018
18	5	"AKA The Octopus"	Millicent Shelton	Jamie King	March8,2018
19	6	"AKA Facetime"	Jet Wilkinson	Raelle Tucker	March8,2018
20	7	"AKA I Want Your Cray Cray"	Jennifer Getzinger	Hilly Hicks Jr.	March8,2018
21	8	"AKA Ain't We Got Fun"	Zetna Fuentes	Gabe Fonseca	March8,2018
22	9	"AKA Shark in the Bathtub, Monster in the Bed"	Rosemary Rodriguez	Jenny Klein	March8,2018
23	10	"AKA Pork Chop"	Neasa Hardiman	Aïda Mashaka Croal	March8,2018
24	11	"AKA Three Lives and Counting"	Jennifer Lynch	Jack Kenny & Lisa Randolph	March8,2018
25	12	"AKA Pray for My Patsy"	Liz Friedlander	Raelle Tucker & Hilly Hicks Jr.	March8,2018
26	13	"AKA Playland"	Uta Briesewitz	Story by: Jesse Harris
Teleplay by: Melissa Rosenberg	March8,2018
Close ▲
Season 3 (2019)
Main article: Jessica Jones (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
27	1	"A.K.A. The Perfect Burger"	Michael Lehmann	Melissa Rosenberg	June14,2019
28	2	"A.K.A. You're Welcome"	Krysten Ritter	Hilly Hicks, Jr.	June14,2019
29	3	"A.K.A. I Have No Spleen"	Anton Cropper	Lisa Randolph	June14,2019
30	4	"A.K.A. Customer Service Is Standing By"	Liesl Tommy	Jamie King	June14,2019
31	5	"A.K.A. I Wish"	Mairzee Almas	J. Holtham	June14,2019
32	6	"A.K.A. Sorry Face"	Tim Iacofano	Jesse Harris	June14,2019
33	7	"A.K.A. The Double Half-Wappinger"	Larry Teng	Nancy Won	June14,2019
34	8	"A.K.A. Camera Friendly"	Stephen Surjik	Scott Reynolds	June14,2019
35	9	"A.K.A. I Did Something Today"	Jennifer Getzinger	Lisa Randolph	June14,2019
36	10	"A.K.A. Hero Pants"	Sanford Bookstaver	Hilly Hicks, Jr. & Jamie King	June14,2019
37	11	"A.K.A. Hellcat"	Jennifer Getzinger	Jane Espenson	June14,2019
38	12	"A.K.A. A Lotta Worms"	Sarah Boyd	Scott Reynolds	June14,2019
39	13	"A.K.A. Everything"	Neasa Hardiman	Story by: Melissa Rosenberg & Nancy Won
Teleplay by: Melissa Rosenberg & Lisa Randolph	June14,2019
Close ▲
Production
Development
In December 2010, Melissa Rosenberg was developing AKA Jessica Jones for ABC under her new production banner Tall Girls Productions, along with ABC Studios and Marvel Television. The series, which would be based on the comic book series Alias and centered on the character Jessica Jones, was intended to air in 2011 of the 2011–12 television season, with Marvel Television head Jeph Loeb, Joe Quesada, Alan Fine, and Howard Klein serving as executive producers, and Alias writer Brian Michael Bendis acting as a consultant. At the 2011 San Diego Comic-Con International, Loeb said the series was "about a failed superhero who is rebuilding her life as a private detective in New York City", and would include the characters Carol Danvers and Luke Cage. In November, Rosenberg said the show was now "hoping to get on the schedule for" 2012 of the 2012–13 television season, and added, "I love this character. That is an incredibly damaged, dark, complex female character that kicks ass ... [she is] a former superhero with PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder." She also stated that, while Cage was a part of the series, the couple's daughter Danielle would appear "way down the road". Rosenberg said later in the month that the series would acknowledge the existence of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, with references to Tony Stark and Stark Industries in the pilot script, but admitted that "as we go along things will alter in terms of what is made available to us, but we're definitely in that universe. We are in no way denying that that universe exists. And as much as I can I'm going to pull everything in from there that I can use". She also confirmed that Danvers would be a principal character in the series.

In May 2012, ABC president Paul Lee said the network had passed on the series. Loeb revealed that ABC had requested the series switch its focus to Danvers as the main character, who has "a great life" living on Fifth Avenue, with Jones become a side character to Danvers' story. Later that year, Rosenberg was shopping the show around to other networks, saying "I don't know if it's an ABC show. It might be a cable show, really. The [Alias] graphic novel is the first one that Marvel did that was meant to serve an adult audience. I toned it down a little bit for network, but it's very, very easy to translate that into cable. Very easy." In October 2013, Deadline reported that Marvel was preparing four drama series and a miniseries, totaling 60 episodes, to present to video on demand services and cable providers, with Netflix, Amazon, and WGN America expressing interest. A few weeks later, Marvel and Disney announced that Marvel Television and ABC Studios would provide Netflix with live action series centered around Jessica Jones, Daredevil, Iron Fist, and Luke Cage, leading up to a miniseries based on the Defenders. Rosenberg was brought on to write and produce the new incarnation of the series, to be reconfigured from her original project, which she called a "page one do-over" from her original vision. Liz Friedman also serves as an executive producer on the series during the first season. In December 2014, the official title was revealed to be Marvel's A.K.A. Jessica Jones. However, in June 2015, Marvel revealed that the title for the series would be shortened to Marvel's Jessica Jones. On why the title was shortened, Loeb said, "It literally just became one of those things that happens. We had talked about whether that was the best title for it, and that's how it happened." Rosenberg added that the "AKA" would still be seen in the name of each episode.

In January 2016, Netflix ordered a second season of 13 episodes. Raelle Tucker joined the series as an executive producer and writer for the second season, replacing Friedman, who departed the series to work on the pilot for the ABC series Conviction. A third season was ordered on April 12, 2018, a month after the second season was released. That August, Rosenberg signed a deal to move from Netflix to Warner Bros. Television to develop new projects for the latter, after she had been looking to "do something different". Rosenberg remained showrunner of the series through completion of the third season, with Scott Reynolds joining her as co-showrunner.

Writing
[We are] very aware this is the first female superhero Marvel's ever introduced as a lead. But there was never the intention of, "this is an issue series, we're dealing with issues." While issues of sexual assault and women in power are all issues that I certainly feel very passionately about taking on, the show's all about exploring the inner workings of Jessica Jones and her ensemble.

—Showrunner Melissa Rosenberg on approaching "issues"

Rosenberg talked about the freedom that the series had, saying that it would go "even further in all our storytelling" than what Brian Michael Bendis did in the Alias comic: "That's the beauty of working with Netflix. It's 13 [episodes]. There's no pilot and then getting feedback, reaction and ratings. You're in this bubble. So, what's the story you want to tell? Where do you want to go with [the characters]?" Expanding on this, Rosenberg said that "we start off with [Bendis'] incredible source material and Jessica Jones isn't as well known in the universe obviously as Daredevil and everyone else, so it really allows for a lot of freedom in there. So there are restrictions in terms of the Marvel [Cinematic U]niverse of certain rules of mythology, but within that it's free pass." Rosenberg noted that the final series is very different from the version she developed for ABC because of the different mythology of the MCU.

Rosenberg invited Bendis to the series' writers room early on in the writing process, so the writers could ask Bendis any questions about the character. He walked away from the meeting saying, "they were asking the right questions, and that's a good sign." Bendis also noted that Rosenberg was approaching the character and issues of rape and abuse differently to him, on which he said "I made the right choice for me as a writer then and they're making the right choice for them as writers now. I thought about how much is different and how much has changed, and if it's not brought up in Jessica, when will it be brought up? So I was like, 'Yeah, you should.' I thought that Melissa and the writers were the people to do that and that medium was better-suited to tell that kind of story."

Casting
In August 2014, Sarandos said the series was beginning to look "at casting Jessica." By November, Krysten Ritter, Alexandra Daddario, Teresa Palmer, Jessica De Gouw, and Marin Ireland were being tested for the role of Jessica Jones, with Ritter having been auditioning since October. Additionally, Lance Gross, Mike Colter, and Cleo Anthony were in contention for the role of Luke Cage, which was envisioned as a recurring role in the series before headlining Luke Cage. The next month, Ritter was cast as Jessica Jones. Ritter and Palmer had been the final candidates for the role, with both auditioning opposite Colter to test chemistry. Colter was confirmed as Luke Cage later in December. In January 2015, David Tennant was cast as Kilgrave, and Rachael Taylor was cast as Patricia "Trish" Walker. The latter character was added to the series as a replacement for Danvers, as she was set to feature in her own film. A month later, Carrie-Ann Moss joined the cast, with her role revealed that October to be a female version of male comic book character Jeryn Hogarth. Also in February, Eka Darville, Erin Moriarty, and Wil Traval were cast as Malcolm Ducasse, Hope Shlottman, and Will Simpson, respectively.

Ritter, Taylor, Darville, and Moss return for the second season. They are joined by J.R. Ramirez as Oscar Arocho, Terry Chen as Pryce Cheng, Leah Gibson as Inez Green, and Janet McTeer as Alisa Jones. Traval and Tennant also appear in the second season as guest stars. Ritter, Taylor, Moss, and Darville also return for the third season.

Design
Costumes
Stephanie Maslansky returned as the costume designer for Jessica Jones from Daredevil, and was assisted on the first episode by Jenn Rogien, who crafted Jessica Jones' costume of leather jacket, faded jeans, and boots. Maslansky's fashion choices for each character were influenced by their comic incarnations, and she said, "You really have to study your history of the original characters and see how they dress, how they were originally drawn, how they evolved through the years in these comics. And what you might discover is that, as illustrated, they kind of do wear the same thing all the time." Maslansky also stated that "everyone has a very specific look, and you can vary within that look, but it's not over the top. It has to feel realistic and feel very grounded in this authentic reality we've created in Hell's Kitchen." On Jones' costume, Maslansky said she "considers her clothing to be an armor and a shield and something that helps her maintain a distance from other people and privacy. It keeps her from having to deal with the rest of humanity in a certain sort of way." At least 10 versions of Jones' jacket were made, which started as an Acne Studios leather motorcycle jacket that had any "bells and whistles and any additional superfluous design details" removed, while 20 pairs of jeans were used. Each piece was aged and distressed.

Title sequence
Quick facts: External video... ▼
Close ▲
The series' title sequence, created by Imaginary Forces, incorporates the jazz-style theme from composer Sean Callery mixed with artwork by David Mack, the cover artist for the original Alias comic, "taking [the viewer] around seedier, noir-esque corners of Hell's Kitchen, as if through Jessica's eyes."

Arisu Kashiwagi, lead designer at Imaginary Forces for the title sequence, was "inspired by all the changing activity and vignettes within those rows of windows [for New York-style buildings] — the patterns of light, color, narratives, and graphic silhouettes. It is pretty amazing how much you can see and the number of windows out there with wide open shades ... I could understand our innate fascination with the rear window and that discomforting pleasure when catching a small sliver of a private act." She also looked to Edward Hopper's "Night Windows" and Gerhard Richter's paintings for reference. In order to differentiate the sequence from other painting-inspired ones, Kashiwagi chose to take "a more modern, abstract look while also embracing the spirit of David Mack's watercolor paintings from" Alias. On the design concept, she added, "We based the concept off of Jessica's PTSD and alcoholism, her blurry, unreliable point of view, and translated that visually using paint strokes that smear and obfuscate the scenes ... the scenes would appear only in small sections of the frame, either blocked by a foreground element or contained inside of a silhouetted framing device." Michelle Dougherty, creative director on the project, looked to the opening sequence of Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window to help create the "voyeuristic approach" as well as "using the city as a character" to highlight "the dark places [and] the grit" where Jones investigates.

Filming
Filming for the series takes place in New York City, including areas of Brooklyn and Long Island City that still look like the old Hell's Kitchen, Douglaston, Queens, as well as sound stage work. Manuel Billeter serves as director of photography for the series.

Visual effects
Visual effects for the series were completed by the New York studio Shade VFX, who also worked on Daredevil, with Bryan Goodwin serving as visual effects supervisor.

Music
At the 2015 San Diego Comic-Con International, Sean Callery revealed he was composing the music for the series. Callery did not begin composing the series' main theme until after reading two or three scripts, and did not see the opening graphics until after the second episode, at which point he had "a framework for a theme that [he] hoped would work". At this time, Callery said he started "fooling around" with ideas for the theme, and eventually settled on one that he felt had a "sneaky and fun-ness" quality, adding, Jessica Jones "has dry humor, a real edge to her. But there was something to this character that had a little whisker of playfulness in there, like a cat or something." After creating the theme, Callery began working on the rhythmic quality of it, eventually fully orchestrating his idea into what became the resulting opening theme. Regarding the electric guitar's entrance, Callery pointed out that it got "bigger there because as I looked at the graphics, the lights got a little more strobe-y. So that's when I decided the electric guitar might be a kind of neat add there so that the whole piece will arc a little more." A soundtrack album for the first season was released digitally on June 3, 2016. Jamie Forsyth also contributed to the music of the first season. A soundtrack album for the second season was released digitally on March 16, 2018.

Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
Jessica Jones is the second of the ordered Netflix series, after Daredevil, and was followed by Luke Cage and Marvel's Iron Fist, which led to the miniseries, The Defenders. In November 2013, Disney CEO Bob Iger stated that, if the characters prove popular on Netflix, "It's quite possible that they could become feature films," which Sarandos echoed in July 2015. In August 2014, Vincent D'Onofrio, who played Wilson Fisk in Daredevil, stated that after the "series stuff with Netflix", Marvel has "a bigger plan to branch out". In March 2015, Loeb spoke on the ability for the series to cross over with the MCU films and the ABC television series, saying, "It all exists in the same universe. As it is now, in the same way that our films started out as self-contained and then by the time we got to The Avengers, it became more practical for Captain America to do a little crossover into Thor 2 and for Bruce Banner to appear at the end of Iron Man 3. We have to earn that. The audience needs to understand who all of these characters are and what the world is before you then start co-mingling in terms of where it's going."

On specific crossovers with Daredevil, which had completed its first season by the time Jessica Jones began casting, Loeb said "they're in the same area. In some cases they are in the same neighborhood. One of the things that is important to us is, when you enter the police station, it's the same police station. When you go to the hospital, you start to see the same people. [But] we don't want people suddenly going, 'Wait, is that Matt Murdock that's walking down the street?' Because that's going to feel odd, and in a weird way feel false." On existing in the MCU, specifically in the same world as the other Netflix series, Rosenberg said, "Jessica Jones is a very, very different show than Daredevil. We exist in a cinematic universe, [and] the mythology of the universe is connected, but they look very different, tonally they're very different ... That was my one concern coming in: Am I going to have to fit into Daredevil or what's come before? And the answer is no."

Marketing
Disney Consumer Products created a small line of products to cater to a more adult audience, given the show's edgier tone. Paul Gitter, senior VP of Marvel Licensing for Disney Consumer Products explained that the focus would be more on teens and adults than very young people, with products at outlets like Hot Topic. Additionally, a Marvel Knights merchandise program was created to support the series, which creates new opportunities for individual product lines and collector focused products. Licensing partners wanted to pair up with Marvel, despite this not being a film project, given its previous successes.

Release
Streaming
Jessica Jones was released on the streaming service Netflix, in all territories where it is available, in Ultra HD 4K and high dynamic range (HDR). The first season was enhanced to be available in HDR after its initial release by post-production vendor Deluxe. The episodes for each season were released simultaneously, as opposed to a serialized format, to encourage binge-watching, a format which has been successful for other Netflix original series. Despite being branded as a "Netflix Original", Jessica Jones was licensed to Netflix from Disney.

Jessica Jones was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, along with the other Marvel Netflix series, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. Disney opted not to have Netflix pay a large licensing fee to retain the distribution rights for the series, and instead announced that all the series would be made available on Disney+ on March 16 in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand, and in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022. In the United States, revised parental controls were introduced to the service to allow the more mature content of the series to be added, similarly to the controls that already exist for other regions that have the Star content hub.

Home media
Table info: Season, DVD release dates, Blu-ray release da... ▼
Season	DVD release dates	Blu-ray release dates
Region 1	Region 2	Region 4	Region A	Region B
1	August 22, 2017	December 5, 2016	December 7, 2017	August 22, 2017	December 5, 2016
2	TBA	TBA	TBA	TBA	TBA
3	TBA	TBA	TBA	TBA	TBA
Close ▲
Reception
Audience viewership
Prior to the series' cancellation, Netflix did not reveal subscriber viewership numbers for any of their other original series. However, Karim Zreik, senior vice president of original programming at Marvel Television, provided some viewership demographics for Jessica Jones in August 2017, noting that the series has attracted a large number of female viewers. Also in the month, Netflix released viewing patterns for the Marvel Netflix series. The data, which came from Netflix's "1,300 'taste communities' around the world, where subscribers are grouped based on what they watch", showed that viewers would not watch the series in chronological order by release, rather starting with Jessica Jones, then Daredevil, Luke Cage, and finally Iron Fist. Todd Yellin, Netflix's vice president of product innovation, noted that audiences watch the series "in order of how they're interested in them and how they learn about them." Netflix's data also showed that a viewer watching Jessica Jones would most often then move on to Daredevil, and vice versa, with Yellin figuring that Jessica Jones and Luke Cage would have paired up more, given that Cage was introduced on Jessica Jones. The data also revealed that other "comedies and shows with strong women" such as Friends, Master of None, and Orange Is the New Black led viewers to starting Jessica Jones. In October 2018, Crimson Hexagon, a consumer insights company, released data that examined the "social-media buzz" for the series to try to correlate it with potential viewership. The data showed that when the first season premiered in November 2015, the season had just under 300,000 Twitter and Instagram posts regarding it, and when the second season was released in March 2018, the posts had declined by half, to under 150,000.

Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
For its first season, the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 94% approval rating with an average rating of 8.2/10, based on 80 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Jessica Jones builds a multifaceted drama around its engaging antihero, delivering what might be Marvel's strongest TV franchise to date." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 81 out of 100 based on 32 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".

For season two, Rotten Tomatoes reported an 82% approval rating with an average rating of 7/10, based on 89 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "While Jessica Jones is a slower burn with less focus than its inaugural season, its enticing new character arc more fully details the most charismatic Defender." Metacritic assigned the season a score of 70 out of 100 based on 19 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

For season three, Rotten Tomatoes reported an approval rating of 73% with an average rating of 6.4/10, based on 40 reviews. The website's critical consensus states, "Even if it's not the most satisfying finale for an entire era of Marvel television, Jessica Jones' final chapter finishes strong by giving its complicated heroine the space to change – and Krysten Ritter one last chance to work her sarcastic magic." Metacritic gave a weighted average score of 65 out of 100, based on 7 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Accolades
Table info: Year, Award, Category, Recipient, Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	RECIPIENT	RESULT	REF.
2015	TVLine's Performer of the Week	Performance in "AKA You're a Winner!"	Krysten Ritter	Won
2016	People's Choice Awards	Favorite Sci-Fi/Fantasy TV Actor	David Tennant	Nominated
Critics' Choice Awards	Best Actress in a Drama Series	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Dorian Awards	TV Performance of the Year – Actress	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Empire Awards	Best TV Series	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Peabody Awards	Entertainment and Children's programs	Jessica Jones	Won
Nebula Awards	Ray Bradbury Award for Outstanding Dramatic Presentation	Scott Reynolds, Melissa Rosenberg, and Jamie King (for "AKA Smile")	Nominated
Webby Awards	Special Achievement: Best Actress	Krysten Ritter	Won
Glamour Awards	International TV Actress	Krysten Ritter	Won
Saturn Awards	Best New Media Television Series	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Best TV Actress	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Best Supporting TV Actor	David Tennant	Nominated
Television Critics Association	Outstanding New Program	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Hugo Awards	Best Dramatic Presentation – Short Form	"AKA Smile"	Won
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Main Title Design	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Outstanding Main Title Theme Music	Sean Callery	Won
Online Film & Television Association Award	Best New Theme Song in a Series	Sean Callery	Nominated
Best New Titles Sequence	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Gotham Awards	Breakthrough Series – Long Form	Jessica Jones	Nominated
2018	Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Original Dramatic Score)	Sean Callery	Nominated
People's Choice Awards	The Sci-Fi/Fantasy Show of 2018	Jessica Jones	Nominated
2019	Saturn Awards	Best Streaming Superhero Television Series	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Best Actress in a Streaming Presentation	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Close ▲
In December 2015, IGN named Jessica Jones the best Netflix original programming series released to date. Seasons two and three were recognized with The ReFrame Stamp for hiring people of underrepresented gender identities, and of color.

Other media
In November 2015, an update for the mobile fighting game Marvel: Contest of Champions was released, featuring a six-part story quest involving Jessica Jones and Daredevil, along with a level based on Hell's Kitchen. Additionally, Jessica Jones was added to the role-playing game Marvel: Future Fight.

Cancellation and future
The series was canceled on February 18, 2019, ahead of the third-season premiere. Prior to its cancellation, Kevin A. Mayer, chairman of Walt Disney Direct-to-Consumer and International, noted that, while it had not yet been discussed, it was a possibility that Disney+ could revive the other cancelled Marvel Netflix series. Hulu's senior vice president of originals Craig Erwich also said that the streaming service was open to reviving the former Netflix series.

References
External links
Jessica Jones
More
Jessica Jones (season 1)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Purple Man
Nuke (Marvel Comics)
Krysten Ritter
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Jessica Jones (season 1)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The first season of the American streaming television series Jessica Jones, which is based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, follows a former superhero who opens her own detective agency after her superhero career comes to an end at the hands of Kilgrave. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films and other television series of the franchise. The season was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios and Tall Girls Productions, with Melissa Rosenberg serving as showrunner.

Quick facts: Jessica Jones, Starring, Country of origin, N... ▼
Close ▲
Krysten Ritter stars as Jones, while David Tennant plays Kilgrave. The two are joined by principal cast members Mike Colter, Rachael Taylor, Wil Traval, Erin Moriarty, Eka Darville, and Carrie-Anne Moss. Jessica Jones entered development in late 2013, with Rosenberg reworking a series she had previously developed for ABC. Ritter was cast as Jones in December 2014, and production took place in New York City from February to August 2015. The season addresses issues of rape and assault, and was always intended to be far more "adult" than other Marvel projects, particularly in terms of sex. The show's cinematography took inspiration from noir, while visual effects house Shade VFX focused on creating "invisible" effects that would support its realistic approach.

The first two episodes of the season premiered in New York City on November 17, 2015, with the full season of 13 episodes released on Netflix on November 20 to an estimated high viewership and critical acclaim. Critics praised the performances of Ritter and Tennant, as well as the season's noir tone, approach to sexuality, and coverage of darker topics such as rape, assault and posttraumatic stress disorder. The season was awarded a Peabody Award in the category of "Entertainment and Children's programs", and a Hugo Award for short form dramas. A second season of Jessica Jones was ordered on January 17, 2016.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"AKA Ladies Night"	S. J. Clarkson	Melissa Rosenberg	November20,2015
Jessica Jones, an alcoholic private investigator "gifted" with superhuman strength, delivers a subpoena to strip club owner Gregory Spheeris for lawyer Jeri Hogarth (who is having an affair with her assistant Pam behind the back of her wife Dr. Wendy Ross-Hogarth), exposing her abilities to him in the process. While not working, Jones spies on Luke Cage, a bar owner who sees her looking into his bar and offers her free alcohol as a "Ladies Night" promotion, leading to the two sleeping together. She leaves upset after seeing a photo of a woman in his bathroom. Jones is approached by Barbara and Bob Shlottman after their daughter Hope began acting differently and disappeared. Jones discovers that Hope is with Kilgrave, a man with mind control abilities who once controlled Jones, leaving her with PTSD, and who she believed was dead. Jones wants to flee, but is convinced by her friend and foster-sister Trish Walker to help Hope. Jones finds Hope, but Kilgrave's hold is still over her, and she murders her parents.
2	2	"AKA Crush Syndrome"	S. J. Clarkson	Micah Schraft	November20,2015
Jones is investigated by Detective Oscar Clemons, who discovers photos she took of Cage. Jones lies to Cage that she had been hired by the husband of a woman who Cage had slept with. Cage, having not known that the woman was married, confronts the woman about it, and when she goes to her husband, he attacks Cage with a group. Jones helps fight off the men, and learns that Cage is gifted with unbreakable skin. Hogarth agrees to represent Hope if Jones can prove that Kilgrave exists. Jones remembers leaving Kilgrave to die after he was hit by a bus, and now tracks down the ambulance driver who had picked him up. The driver had donated both his kidneys to Kilgrave, and is now on dialysis. Jones finds the operating doctor who anonymously donated the dialysis machine. He agrees to testify for Hope, and reveals that he operated on Kilgrave without anesthesia since that would have blocked Kilgrave's abilities. When Hogarth meets with Hope, the latter reveals that Jones was once under Kilgrave's control as well.
3	3	"AKA It's Called Whiskey"	David Petrarca	Story by: Liz Friedman
Teleplay by: Liz Friedman & Scott Reynolds	November20,2015
Jones and Cage bond over their mutual powers, while Jones also tracks down a surgical grade anesthetic to subdue Kilgrave with. Hogarth, now divorcing Wendy (who discovered the affair) and unwilling to risk herself and her reputation despite Kurata's testimony, organizes for Walker to interview Hope about Kilgrave live on her radio talk show. Walker asks that anyone who believes they have been approached or controlled by Kilgrave contact Hogarth, and then publicly insults Kilgrave on air. Angered, Kilgrave sends police sergeant Will Simpson to kill Walker, with Jones having to use the anesthetic on Walker to convince Simpson that he has carried out his orders. Jones follows Simpson back to Kilgrave, who orders Simpson to walk off a balcony. Jones again convinces Simpson that he has carried out this order by knocking him out and taking him to the street below, telling him as he wakes that she caught him. Searching through the house that Kilgrave was occupying, Jones discovers a room full of photographs of her.
4	4	"AKA 99 Friends"	David Petrarca	Hilly Hicks Jr.	November20,2015
Jones accepts a case from jewelry designer Audrey Eastman who seeks evidence of her husband cheating. Jones tracks Eastman's husband to a rendezvous with his girlfriend only to discover a trap set by Eastman, who blames gifted people for the death of her mother during "the incident" and who learned of Jones' powers from Spheeris. Angered as she recalls the death of her own parents, Jones convinces the Eastmans to leave her alone with a show of her power and a bluff over the number of other gifted in the city. Hogarth and Jones process a large number of people claiming to have been controlled by Kilgrave, forming a support group for those legitimately affected by him. Simpson attempts to apologize to a frightened Walker over his action while under Kilgrave's control; they eventually bond over the experience. Jones uses surveillance footage provided by Simpson and clues offered by the Kilgrave support group to learn that the photographer spying on her for Kilgrave is her drug addicted neighbor Malcolm Ducasse.
5	5	"AKA The Sandwich Saved Me"	Stephen Surjik	Dana Baratta	November20,2015
Jones recalls her brief time as a superhero as she debates whether to save Ducasse or to use him as a means of locating Kilgrave. Walker and Simpson begin a romantic relationship with Jones grudgingly allowing him to assist in a plot to capture Kilgrave. Simpson supplies ex-special operations skills and contacts, including access to a hermetically sealed room in which Kilgrave could be kept once the effects of the anesthetic wear off. They follow Ducasse to his daily meeting with Kilgrave where photographs of Jones are exchanged for drugs, which Kilgrave had forced Ducasse to become addicted to so he would obey Kilgrave even after his powers wore off, after around 12 hours of no contact. Simpson shoots Kilgrave with the anesthetic; Jones refuses to let him kill Kilgrave so he can be used to prove Shlottman innocent. Jones gets Kilgrave to Walker and the getaway car, but they are attacked by hired bodyguards who escape with the unconscious Kilgrave. Jones then resolves to help Ducasse overcome his addiction.
6	6	"AKA You're a Winner!"	Stephen Surjik	Edward Ricourt	November20,2015
Kilgrave uses his powers to win a poker game, and spends his winnings to purchase Jones's childhood home. After paying a fellow inmate to beat her, Shlottman confesses to Jones that she is pregnant with Kilgrave's child and has been trying to miscarry. Jones gives her an abortion pill; Hogarth secretly intends to take the fetal remains. Cage hires Jones to help find the brother of someone, who has evidence on the death of Cage's wife Reva Connors. Connors had left Cage instructions to find a box she had hidden, but it was not there when he looked. Jones recalls Kilgrave having Connors lead them to the box, with Jones digging it up before killing Connors. Jones and Cage find the missing brother, and are given the file of the bus driver that accidentally hit Kilgrave (and who Cage believes hit Connors). Seeing that the driver had been drunk, Cage seeks revenge. Jones intervenes and confesses that Kilgrave forced her to kill Connors. Cage leaves, unable to forgive her for hiding the truth and instigating an intimate relationship with him.
7	7	"AKA Top Shelf Perverts"	Simon Cellan Jones	Jenna Reback & Micah Schraft	November20,2015
A drunk Jones, having been asked by Hogarth to convince Wendy to sign divorce papers, accosts Wendy in a subway and almost kills her. Wendy refuses to sign the papers. Ducasse helps Jones back to her apartment, where they find her neighbor Ruben, dead. Knowingly blaming Kilgrave, Jones devises a desperate plan: get herself imprisoned in a supermax prison so when Kilgrave inevitably comes for her, his abilities will be caught on camera. Walker and Simpson have their own plan, with Simpson following Kilgrave's security detail, though he does not tell Walker when he finds them at Jones's old house. Ducasse disposes of Ruben's body, though Jones finds him. Enacting her plan, Jones goes to a police station with Ruben's severed head and confesses to his murder. Her processing is interrupted when Kilgrave takes control of the station and declares his love for Jones, as she was the first person to resist him. He invites her "home", and Simpson later watches as Jones voluntarily enters the house with Kilgrave.
8	8	"AKA WWJD?"	Simon Cellan Jones	Scott Reynolds	November20,2015
Jones spends several days living with Kilgrave. Though he takes her phone so she cannot record him, she secretly gets Simpson's when she catches him sneaking into the house to plant a bomb. Not willing to let Kilgrave die until Shlottman is free, Jones tells Kilgrave about the bomb. Kilgrave, in an effort to prove that his nature was forced upon him, shows Jones a pendrive (which Connors had hidden in the box) containing footage of his parents experimenting on him as a child, and him eventually stopping them by his command. Jones shows Kilgrave that he can do good with his powers by convincing him to save several people. She visits Walker and asks whether she should stay with Kilgrave and try to use his abilities to change the world for good. When Jones, knowing that Kilgrave will harm some of his "servants" if she does not return, goes back to Kilgrave, she instead uses a distraction to incapacitate him, and flies away with him. Then, Simpson is seriously injured by his own bomb, which Kilgrave left for him.
9	9	"AKA Sin Bin"	John Dahl	Jamie King & Dana Baratta	November20,2015
Walker races Simpson to the hospital, where he insists on seeing a Dr. Kozlov from his days as an army sergeant. Kozlov gives him some pills, and his injuries heal miraculously. Jones imprisons Kilgrave in the hermetically sealed room, where she plans to torture him until he reveals his abilities on camera. Hogarth warns her that this would forfeit their case in court, and that the D.A. has offered a 20 year plea deal to Shlottman if she pleads guilty. Jones convinces Shlottman to not take the deal, and devises a new plan. From the footage of Kilgrave's experiments, Jones discovers the names of his parents, Louise and Albert Thompson, and from photographs realizes that his mother is a member of the support group. Jones confronts her and Albert, and convinces them to face their son. Jones also forces Clemons to act as a witness. In the cell, Kilgrave is remorseful, but Louise attempts to kill him to stop him from hurting anyone again, and he makes her kill herself. Jones saves Albert from a similar fate, but Kilgrave escapes.
10	10	"AKA 1,000 Cuts"	Rosemary Rodriguez	Dana Baratta & Micah Schraft	November20,2015
Kilgrave forces Hogarth to take him to a doctor; she goes to Wendy, hoping Kilgrave will force her to sign their divorce papers, but Kilgrave instead orders Wendy to kill Hogarth with a thousand cuts as revenge. Pam arrives, and accidentally kills Wendy to stop her by hitting her in the head with a vase. Thompson reveals that Kilgrave's abilities are a virus that he releases, and that a vaccine could be created from Jones's blood as Jones appears to have become immune to Kilgrave's influence. Simpson, under the influence of Kozlov's drugs (that enhance combat performance and numb pain) arrives at the cell, where Clemons is guarding the evidence needed to imprison Kilgrave. Set on killing Kilgrave instead, Simpson kills Clemons and destroys the evidence. He finds Walker with Thompson, who is unsuccessful in creating the vaccine, but she sends Simpson away when she sees how unstable he is, managing to take some of his pills from him in the process. Kilgrave gets Shlottman released from prison and trades her for his father; Shlottman kills herself, freeing Jones to kill Kilgrave.
11	11	"AKA I've Got the Blues"	Uta Briesewitz	Scott Reynolds & Liz Friedman	November20,2015
Jones remembers waking up after a car accident as the sole surviving member of her family and being adopted by the Walkers in a publicity stunt by Trish's abusive adoptive mother, to help bolster Trish's fame as the star of child television program Patsy! Jones discovered her abilities soon after. Now, Jones covers up Shlottman's death and Kilgrave's involvement in it, and begins searching morgues for Thompson's body as a lead. Affected by an increasing lack of sleep, Jones is injured in an accident, but does manage to find Clemons' body and deduces that Simpson killed him rather than Kilgrave. She agrees to meet with Simpson, and he attacks her in her apartment, overpowering the injured Jones. Walker arrives and uses Simpson's pills to help Jones defeat him. Not used to the pills, Walker requires medical attention. As she recovers in the hospital, Kozlov retrieves the unconscious Simpson from Jones's apartment, and Kilgrave warns Jones that he has found Cage; Jones finds Cage herself, in time to see his bar explode with him inside.
12	12	"AKA Take a Bloody Number"	Billy Gierhart	Hilly Hicks Jr.	November20,2015
Cage survives the explosion, and reveals to Jones that he was ordered by Kilgrave to destroy his bar. Walker learns that Kozlov works for "IGH", a company that also paid for Jones's medical bills after her childhood car accident, and potentially played a part in her gaining abilities. After Cage recounts the events leading up to the explosion, in which he followed Jones to confront Kilgrave, they realize that Kilgrave is keeping Thompson alive to try and boost his abilities, and may be testing his increasing hold over people. While they investigate, Cage forgives Jones for her role in Connors' death, and the two begin to grow close again. They find a nightclub where Kilgrave tested his enhanced powers, and are confronted by him there. He reveals that he has been controlling Cage the whole time, having made him forgive Jones to earn her trust, and now unleashes Cage on Jones, escaping while they fight. Police soon arrive and are overpowered by Cage, but Jones manages to shoot him in the head with one of their shotguns at point blank range.
13	13	"AKA Smile"	Michael Rymer	Story by: Jamie King & Scott Reynolds
Teleplay by: Scott Reynolds & Melissa Rosenberg	November20,2015
With Cage unconscious and requiring medical attention, nurse Claire Temple—who has previous experience treating gifted individuals—agrees to look after him while Jones tracks down Kilgrave, who is unsatisfied with Thompson's efforts to increase his abilities so far. Thompson has been using the fetal remains that Hogarth kept, and believes that a full dose of his extracted drug could now make Kilgrave powerful enough to control Jones. Using Cage's phone, Jones tracks Kilgrave to the apartment of a wealthy couple, whom he has enslaved, in time to see Thompson die. Cage awakens, and decides to leave. Jones confronts Kilgrave at the couple's yacht, where he takes Walker hostage. When Jones allows this, Kilgrave believes that he finally has control over her again. However, when he tells her to say "I love you", Jones says it to Walker instead, and snaps Kilgrave's neck. Jones is arrested for the murder, but Hogarth secures her release, leaving her to get calls from people around the city who have heard of her heroics and seek her assistance.
Close ▲
Production
Development
In October 2013, Marvel and Disney announced that Marvel Television and ABC Studios would provide Netflix with live action series centered around Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist, and Luke Cage, leading up to a miniseries based on the Defenders. Melissa Rosenberg was brought on to showrun the Jessica Jones series, to be reconfigured as a "page one do-over" from an original project she had developed in December 2010 for ABC. In December 2014, the official title was revealed to be Marvel's A.K.A. Jessica Jones, but that was shortened to Marvel's Jessica Jones in June 2015. The season consists of 13 hour-long episodes.

Writing
The writers for the season worked in Los Angeles, with one member of the writing team on set in New York for filming. Actress Carrie-Anne Moss talked about how the scripts developed through the production of the season, explaining that the dialogue usually did not change much while filming, but scenes were altered to accommodate the filming locations when necessary. Rosenberg stated that, since Jones is a private investigator, there would be some procedural elements to the show, "but that's not our focus. There are cases. In particular, there is a large case that carries over the season." Elaborating on this, Marvel Television head Jeph Loeb said that the "fun about being a private detective is that the line between what's legal and what's not legal gets very blurred....her drive is not always necessarily to solve the case, as much as it is to go, 'Okay, can I pay the rent? How am I going to get through this day?'" He also added that inspiration for the season came from "the noir films from the '40s" and "film[s] like Chinatown."

Describing the tone of the season, Loeb said, "When we first started talking about Daredevil, we promised that we were telling a story that was first a crime drama and then a superhero show. This is more of a psychological thriller. This speaks to when you think about what happened to Jessica and what sort of destroyed her life and how she tried to put it together, and then to have to confront the person who deconstructed her world, that's a very powerful, emotional place to start from." On approaching rape and trauma in the season, Rosenberg wanted to avoid actually showing rape, which she called "lazy storytelling" and often a way to "spice up" male characters, and preferred to just make the trauma a part of the characters' everyday lives rather than an "issue" for the season to tackle. When asked about the adult nature of the season, including the use of sex, Rosenberg explained that Marvel would only not allow showing nudity and the use of the word 'fuck' in the season. Regarding all of the social issues the season covered, such as "issues of choice, interracial relationships, domestic violence, [and] issues of consent" while also exploring "feminism and being a woman in this world", Rosenberg said, "It was never our intention going in [to hit a social issue], and I think the minute you intend to do that, you're stepping up on a soap box. If you're digging into the dark side of the human psyche and all the different experiences we go through, and as women we go through, you're going to find those things. If you treat them honestly and with respect, you're also going to hit social issues."

Casting
The main cast for the season includes Krysten Ritter as Jessica Jones, Mike Colter as Luke Cage, Rachael Taylor as Patricia "Trish" Walker, Wil Traval as Will Simpson, Erin Moriarty as Hope Shlottman, Eka Darville as Malcolm Ducasse, Carrie-Anne Moss as Jeri Hogarth, and David Tennant as Kilgrave.

Appearing in recurring roles for the season are Susie Abromeit as Pam, Colby Minifie and Kieran Mulcare as Robyn and Ruben, Nichole Yannetty as Nicole, Clarke Peters as Oscar Clemons, Michael Siberry and Lisa Emery as Albert and Louise Thompson, and Robin Weigert as Wendy Ross-Hogarth. Danielle Ferland, Gillian Glasco, Ryan Farrell, and Paul Pryce also recur as victims of Kilgrave who join a support group established by Jones, while Rosario Dawson and Royce Johnson reprise their roles of Claire Temple and Brett Mahoney, respectively, from Daredevil.

Design
Stephanie Maslansky returned as the costume designer for Jessica Jones from Daredevil, and was assisted on the first episode by Jenn Rogien, who crafted Jessica Jones' leather jacket, faded jeans, and boots costume. On Jones's costume, Maslansky said she "considers her clothing to be an armor and a shield and something that helps her maintain a distance from other people and privacy. It keeps her from having to deal with the rest of humanity in a certain sort of way." At least 10 versions of Jones's jacket were made, which started as an Acne Studios leather motorcycle jacket that had any "bells and whistles and any additional superfluous design details" removed. 20 pairs of jeans were used, with both sets of clothing being aged and distressed.

Because Jones's costume does not evolve much throughout the season, Maslansky used flashbacks to show how her costume had evolved to the present day: for 'pre-Kilgrave' Jessica Jones, Maslansky gave the character "more pulled together" clothes, albeit "still kind of edgy" clothes that did not change who she was as a character, but were just "different". For instance, in a flashback to Jones working in a corporate environment, she does not wear a suit, instead "wear[s] her jeans and find[s] a really cool jacket, maybe a vintage thing, maybe something that she borrowed from Trish". For a flashback where Jones wears a large sandwich costume, a "variety" of costumes were ordered online, with the chosen suit then distressed to "look dirty and old"; "a mere shadow of its former sandwich self," becoming "more of a hoagie than a sandwich." In another flashback, Jones imagines escaping Kilgrave's control. The bright yellow dress the character wears in the dream sequence was chosen for its juxtaposition to the character's real situation, with Maslansky calling it "so beautiful and so free and so light".

For Kilgrave, Maslansky used many suits created by designer Paul Smith, rather than custom-making them as she originally planned, as Smith "was all about purple" in the previous fashion season. On the suits, Maslansky added that the designers "wanted to find a place where we could utilize clothing in shades of purple, but not go so over the top that it would look silly and that he would stop feeling ominous or menacing." Expanding on this, Maslansky called purple a traditionally "fairly friendly color, and he's anything but friendly. So I had to find ways to make him be ominous and frightening and terrifying. I found that I needed the right proportion of shades of purple to other shades that were similar: navy, black, maroon." Maslansky felt Luke Cage was also someone "who wears his clothing like an armor," with his wardrobe consisting of T-shirts, jeans, leather jackets or an army jacket. For a character like Trish Walker, who does not have the same kind of "statement costume" as Jones, Maslansky tried to create a certain character style. Maslansky said that Walker's uniform is fashion, so "even when she was hanging around the house, she was wearing a pair of rag & bone jeans with a Chloé top, and this was her version of a T-shirt and jeans." Maslansky added that Robin was "a blast to dress" because of her "quirky" personality, yet she was still able to "put herself together aesthetically." For Malcolm, as his story progressively became brighter throughout the season, so did his wardrobe, becoming "a little brighter and a little more hopeful."

Filming
In February 2014, Marvel announced that Jessica Jones would be filmed in New York City. In April, Marvel Comics' editor-in-chief Joe Quesada stated that the show would be filming in areas of Brooklyn and Long Island City that still look like the old Hell's Kitchen, in addition to sound stage work. The season went into production in February 2015 in the Bronx at Lehman College with the working title Violet and aimed to film each episode over nine days, on average. Filming concluded in mid- to late August. Other filming locations in New York City used included the East Village's Horseshoe Bar for Luke's Bar; the 33rd Street PATH station and a PATH train; the 101st Street area for the exterior of Jessica's apartment (with the interior apartment settings created on a sound stage); Douglaston, Queens for Jessica's childhood home; the Angel Orensanz Center for Jessica and Luke's fight in "AKA Take a Bloody Number"; Williamsburgh Savings Bank Tower and Pier 88 for locations in "AKA Smile"; the Meatpacking District; Nolita; near the 39th Street entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel; Tribeca; Bryant Park; Union Square; Gramercy; Greenpoint, Brooklyn, near the Newtown Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant; Long Island City, including the Allied Extruder Factory for the weed-growing facility, with exteriors shots taken from near Calvary Cemetery; the Queensboro Bridge on the Queens side; the Manhattan Bridge; the Brooklyn Navy Yard; Bethesda Terrace and Fountain in Central Park; and Industry City.

Concerning inspirations on the season, Loeb revealed that "Chinatown... is one of the things that influenced Brian Michael Bendis and Michael Gaydos when they created the character. So those kind of beautiful, long, wide expansive shots, where people sort of come into frame and go back out of frame and someone's in the foreground and then someone is way in the background and they're having a conversation, that's the stuff that makes it interesting." Director of photography Manuel Billeter and episodic director S. J. Clarkson took inspiration from the comics in terms of their color palette while looking to the works of Wong Kar-wai as reference to create "unconventional" compositions, with Billeter explaining, "There were a lot of foreground elements [and] headroom as well, and we never wanted to show an open frame. We wanted to create a sense of claustrophobia." Billeter shot the season with a Red Epic Dragon camera in 4K resolution, with 5K used for some visual effects shots, and with Panavision PVintage lenses; he focused mostly on static frames and "good composition" but did occasionally employ a camera dolly or steadicam. For lighting, Billeter noted that many New York street lamps had been changed from sodium-vapor lamps to LEDs, so he tried to recreate the "warm, dirty color of sodium vapor" for night exterior scenes.

Production designer Loren Weeks described Marvel's Hell's Kitchen as having "a little more [East] Village quality". To achieve the explosion at Luke's Bar, Weeks said, "We could not take out the windows [at Horseshoe Bar], which are [made up of] multiple small colored glass and metal frames. We didn't know frankly when we picked that location that we would have that explosion... What we did was build a fireproof box in the entrance and we had a cannon in there which blew out debris and smoke and some fire. And then we did a lighting effect on the inside and then the rest of the explosion was handled by visual effects." For the scenes on the PATH train and station, location manager Jason Farrar noted that production had exclusive use of the tracks and platform during the day when ridership was low to get their shots.

Visual effects
Shade VFX created over 600 effects shots for the season, with "invisible" effects "the showpiece, helping to push forward the darker elements the series." Therefore, effects supervisor Karl Coyner and producer Julie Long worked closely with the crew on set to "execute stunts, set extensions, explosions, wetwork and fire sequences" while filming, rather than have Shade create those effects digitally. An effect that Shade was required to create was tinting Kilgrave's skin purple "in a few key scenes" where he is using his powers, a nod to the comic iteration's purple-skinned appearance.

Music
At the 2015 San Diego Comic-Con International, Sean Callery revealed he was composing music for Jessica Jones, eventually stating that the music required for each episode ranged from 9 to 20 minutes, totaling approximately 415 minutes of music for the season. A soundtrack album for the season was released by Marvel Music digitally on June 3, 2016.

All music composed by Sean Callery, unless otherwise noted.

No.	Title	Music	Length
1.	"Jessica Jones Main Title"		1:09
2.	"Then There's the Matter of You"		1:18
3.	"Fire Escape Night Shift"		4:16
4.	"Alias Investigations"		2:28
5.	"Fight at Luke's Bar"		2:21
6.	"Nurse Jessica"		2:13
7.	"Rescuing Hope from the Hotel Bed"		3:50
8.	"Kidnapping Kilgrave"		3:20
9.	"Sleepover at Luke's"		3:03
10.	"Jessica on the Move"		2:44
11.	"Cockroach"		3:09
12.	"Luke's Revenge on the Bus Driver"	Sean Callery & Jamie Forsyth	2:31
13.	"Elevator Massacre"		2:52
14.	"Looking for Kilgrave–Bus Accident Vision"		1:56
15.	"Hospital Cat and Mouse"		3:11
16.	"Gift from Trish"		2:55
17.	"Kilgrave Escapes His Glass Prison"		1:41
18.	"Tailing Malcolm"		2:22
19.	"Jessica Confesses to Luke"	Sean Callery & Jamie Forsyth	2:58
20.	"Restaurant Flashback"		1:48
21.	"Jones–Cage Match"	Sean Callery & Jamie Forsyth	2:58
22.	"Final Justice for the Purple Man"		2:33
23.	"Maybe It's Enough the World Thinks I'm a Hero"		2:17
Total length:	59:53
Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
On existing in the MCU, specifically in the same world as the other Netflix series, Rosenberg said, "Jessica Jones is a very, very different show than Daredevil. We exist in a cinematic universe, [and] the mythology of the universe is connected, but they look very different, tonally they're very different... That was my one concern coming in: Am I going to have to fit into Daredevil or what's come before? And the answer is no." On references or "easter eggs" in the season, Rosenberg explained that "A little is always there and in the writer's room we have some fanboys that know all this stuff and they're all geeking out with different stuff....a lot of references are to the [Alias comic]." She also said that nods to the larger MCU are in the season, with each episode having a "little something in it."

Jeryn Hogarth is closely associated with Iron Fist in the comics, and also worked with Luke Cage as part of those characters' Heroes for Hire team. Like Daredevil, the season makes references to the events of The Avengers and the Avengers (specifically Hulk and Captain America, though not by name). Jessica also mentions Angela del Toro as another private investigator, who in the comics is the hero White Tiger and has connections with K'un-Lun and Iron Fist. Paul Tassi, writing for Forbes, was disappointed with how the season fit into the larger MCU, feeling the season seemed "removed from the world of The Avengers" and did not acknowledge Daredevil enough given that "it's supposed to be sharing at least this little corner of the Marvel Cinematic Universe with it." Eric Francisco of Inverse countered that Jessica Jones's lack of overt connections to the MCU was "the show's chief advantage. Besides demonstrating how physically wide open the MCU's scope really is, Jessica Jones also proves the MCU's thematic durability."

Marketing
In May 2015, Marvel announced plans to reprint Alias, the comic that the series is based on, with new covers from David Mack, the original cover artist on the comic who is also providing artwork for the series' opening credits. The reprints, which were all released digitally in June 2015, and up to issue 15 in two trade paperbacks in September, were intended to both celebrate the history of Jessica Jones, and introduce new audiences to the character ahead of the release of the season. In late September through early October, Marvel and Netflix released short teasers for the season, which chronicled a day of Jones' life. Also in early October, Marvel digitally released a 12-page one-shot comic by the original Alias creative team—Bendis, Gaydos, and Mack—set in the universe of the television series. The one-shot was created as an exclusive for New York Comic Con, where a print version was distributed. The comic sees Jessica Jones coming into contact with Daredevil character Turk Barrett, and includes a short sequence featuring Daredevil, to celebrate "the connective tissue that will build between the series." Also during New York Comic Con, Marvel set up a street marketing campaign, and screened "AKA Ladies Night" on October 10, while at the Marvel Booth fans could take their picture with the Alias Investigations desk, with Kilgrave's eyes appearing in the background of the final animation. Marvel additionally partnered with Uber during the event to provide select riders with complimentary trips to or from the convention in custom designed SUVs.

A full trailer was released at the end of October, with Meagan Damore of Comic Book Resources feeling that it helped establish the same tone as Daredevil and introduced "Marvel's creepiest villain yet" with Kilgrave. She also compared Jessica to some of the other female characters of the MCU—Black Widow, Melinda May, and Peggy Carter—feeling that Jessica stood out from the others because she does not have "a sense of togetherness" and was the most relatable because of her struggle with trauma, and that the season would have the amount of creative space required to explore the character that the other female characters were lacking. A second trailer was released on November 10, 2015. Sarene Leeds of The Wall Street Journal felt that this trailer highlighted empowerment, compared to the first that "was about illustrating the fear behind Jones's past". The season held its premiere in New York City on November 17.

Release
Streaming
The first season of Jessica Jones was released on November 20, 2015, on the streaming service Netflix, in all territories where it is available, in Ultra HD 4K. In January 2015, a month after Marvel announced a 2015 release for the season, Sarandos had said that it was "too hard to say now" if the season would actually release in 2015, with Netflix's plan to release a Marvel series approximately a year apart from each other after Daredevil's April 2015 release. However, Netflix soon confirmed that the season would indeed release in 2015, announcing the November 20 release date in September. The season was enhanced to be available in high dynamic range (HDR) after its initial release by post-production vendor Deluxe.

The season, along with the additional Jessica Jones seasons and the other Marvel Netflix series, was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. The season became available on Disney+ in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand on March 16, ahead of its debut in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022.

Home media
The season was released on DVD in Region 1 and Blu-ray in Region A on August 22, 2017, in Region 2 and Region B on December 5, 2016, and in Region 4 on December 7, 2016.

Reception
Audience viewership
As Netflix does not reveal subscriber viewership numbers for any of their original series, Symphony Technology Group compiled data for the season based on a sample size of 15,000 people using software on their phones that measures television viewing by detecting a program's sound. According to Symphony, from September to December 2015, episodes of Jessica Jones averaged 4.8million viewers during a 35-day viewing cycle. The data was presented by Alan Wurtzel, NBCUniversal president of research and media development, in a presentation aimed to provide "perspective" when stating "digital platforms are hurting the traditional TV business". Netflix CCO Ted Sarandos responded to the data by saying that "the whole methodology and the measurement and the data itself doesn't reflect any sense of reality of anything that we keep track of." A further study from Symphony, for the same time period, found Jessica Jones to be one of the four most watched series in the 18 to 24 demographic, ahead of any broadcast network series. The marketing analytics firm Jumpshot determined the season was the fifth-most viewed Netflix season in the first 30 days after it premiered, garnering 26% of the viewers that the second season of Daredevil received, which was the most viewed season according to Jumpshot. Jumpshot, which "analyzes click-stream data from an online panel of more than 100million consumers", looked at the viewing behavior and activity of the company's U.S. members, factoring in the relative number of U.S. Netflix viewers who watched at least one episode of the season.

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 94% approval rating with an average rating of 8.20/10 based on 80 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Jessica Jones builds a multifaceted drama around its engaging antihero, delivering what might be Marvel's strongest TV franchise to date." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 81 out of 100 based on 32 critics, indicating what the website considers to be "universal acclaim".

The early screening of the first episode at New York Comic Con was met by a very positive reaction from the crowd. George Marston of Newsarama gave the first episode a 10 out of 10, saying the season "strikes a balance between self-aware noir and Marvel's first flirtations with psychological horror....not just another hit for Marvel and Netflix, but a landmark moment for female superheroes on TV." Eric Goldman of IGN felt that "Jessica Jones starts out with a strong premiere episode that...easily goes further than anything in the MCU in terms of sexuality." He called Ritter "a commendably tough, sardonic" Jessica Jones and praised the supporting cast for the strong impressions they made, later scoring the episode an 8.5 out of 10. Evan Valentine of Collider gave the episode 5 stars out of 5, feeling that Tennant would "ascend to the same level as Tom Hiddleston's Loki and Vincent D'Onofrio's Wilson Fisk as one of the cornerstones of villainy in the MCU". Katharine Trendacosta of io9 also had positive thoughts on "AKA Ladies Night", highlighting the episode's use of light and color, especially with purple, and the way it portrays New York as how it "actually looks—not overly bright and shiny and clean, but not suffering a never-ending power-outage either". Abraham Riesman noted the episode's presentation of sexuality, which "was shockingly and refreshingly honest", compared to Marvel's other films and television series. He concluded by applauding the season's bringing up of the topics of rape and PTSD.

Reviewing the first seven episodes of the season, Maureen Ryan of Variety gave positive thoughts on Jessica Jones, stating, "The show, which features an exceptional performance from Krysten Ritter and sure-handed guidance from executive producer Melissa Rosenberg, is not just a contender for the title Best Marvel-related TV property; in a supremely crowded TV scene, it is one of the year's most distinctive new dramas." Jack Shepard of The Independent, also on the first seven episodes, felt the season "not only matches [Daredevil] but exceeds expectations." Shepard gave exceptional praise to Tennant's Kilgrave, feeling he was one of the best villains produced by Marvel, and possibly "the best on-screen comic book villain since Heath Ledger's Joker." Forbes' Merrill Barr stated that after seeing the first seven episodes, "the answer is a resounding yes" if lightning could strike twice for Marvel Television, claiming, "In no uncertain terms, Jessica Jones is the best thing Marvel Television has ever produced. It contains all the hopeful anticipation of [Agents of] S.H.I.E.L.D., all the feminist-overtones of Agent Carter and all the grittiness of Daredevil."

Deadline Hollywood's Dominic Patten also had praise for the season, particularly Rosenberg's influence on it, the coverage of topics such as "PTSD, abuse, assault, shame, and death" and the cast, highlighting Tennant's Kilgrave as the actor's best role as well as the MCU's best villain. Mary McNamara from the Los Angeles Times felt Jessica Jones "rewrote the definition of superhuman" and was "a marvel", lauding the season's "breathtaking" examination of recovery from a sexually, emotionally and physically abusive relationship. Daniel Fienberg for The Hollywood Reporter was also positive, saying the season "looks and feels a bit like a cable anti-hero series—but it's really more of a post-hero story, making it fascinating and unique in a marketplace that doesn't lack for costumed do-gooders of all types." His one criticism was that "the show shares Jessica's monomaniacal fixation on [Kilgrave] and the result is a sort of narrative claustrophobia...Everything in these opening episodes ties back to Kilgrave and Kilgrave is such a twisted figure that it's hard for any light to get in." Melissa Maerz of Entertainment Weekly was slightly more critical of the season, awarding it a "B". Though Maerz felt Ritter was a good choice for Jessica and enjoyed the cinematography, she felt the season "could've made for a gritty character drama if it weren't for the noir clichés (saxophone music, shadows through glass) and a procedural structure that's very CSI: Marvel. The show's biggest weakness is the same as Jessica's: It starts out with extraordinary potential, but somewhere along the way, it loses what make it special."

Goldman, later reviewing the whole season, gave it a 9.3 out of 10. He commended all the actors, the relationship between Jessica and Trish, and the episode "Sin Bin", though was critical of the character Robyn. Additionally, Goldman also felt the season spent "too many scenes devoted to Jeri's marital strife" and that it hit its peak "a bit before the actual end of the season" similar to Daredevil, with most of the thrilling moments earlier in the season.

Analysis
Libby Hill of the Los Angeles Times commented on how Jessica Jones exposed modern day sexism and misogyny through Kilgrave's use of the phrase "Smile", calling the season "the most innocuous and incisive cultural critique" from Marvel to date. Hill likened an early scene that shows Kilgrave asking Jones to smile, and her obliging, to "similar well-meaning scenarios [that] play out in the real world time and again each day" many in the form of gendered street harassment, that resonates with many women. Hill also added that "Kilgrave serves as an exaggerated representation of perceived consent," due to the response he gives later in the season to Jessica about never knowing if someone is doing what they want or what he tells them to do. She concludes that "Jessica Jones is revolutionary because in acknowledging casual misogyny and exaggerating its most destructive tendencies, it exposes the pervasive toxicity therein. It does all of this without making a show of its politics, instead resting easy on the knowledge that all too many women will relate to the subtleties of its premise." Amy C. Chambers, writing for The Science and Entertainment Laboratory, noted how the season moved away from sexism even more so than the comics, by changing Kilgrave's abilities from phermone based, with a particular effect on women, to viral, with equal effect no matter gender, indicating that "powerlessness is not gendered."

Kwame Opam at The Verge chose to examine rape and the nature of consent in the season. Comparing Jessica Jones to other television series that have depicted rape (Game of Thrones, Orange Is the New Black, and Outlander), Opam felt that "since rape is one of the show's core themes, we never need to see it... rape is a foundational part of the text, and its presence is constant. Even if it's invisible, it's always there." He also felt the season took the time to examine how rape happens and what it means, especially in terms of power and consent, concluding, "Jessica Jones moves the conversation about rape forward by treating it as a complex subject worth investigating, rather than as spice for a story...Maybe we don't need to see it anymore to grasp how violent it is. Maybe our energies are better spent thinking deeply about why it happens at all." The Guardian's Lili Loofbourow also discussed the season's depiction of rape and consent, noting the complications that come with Kilgrave telling his victims how to feel rather than just how to act, and saying, "however exceptional Kilgrave's power seems, the moral quagmire it produces is all too common. It's the condition of the rape victim who had an orgasm during her assault. It's the condition of the soldier trained to kill when he suspects his targets are innocent. It's the condition of the battered woman who goes back to her abuser and stays "of her own free will". It's the condition of...any person, really, who agrees, whatever the context, to consent to forgo consent in the future." Loofbourow also discussed the character of Simpson, comparing his power-inducing red pill to the anti-feminist "red pillers", and noting that his taking of the pills "renders him not just dangerously delusional, but so utterly at odds with nature and reality of any kind that he will forget to breathe unless he counteracts the pill's effects."

Accolades
Jessica Jones was included on multiple Best/Top TV Shows of 2015 lists, ranking on People's (1st, along with Daredevil), Indiewire and The Star-Ledger's (2nd), NPR's (3rd), ScreenCrush's (4th), Digital Spy's (5th), Complex's (6th), Vulture's (7th), Slate Magazine's (9th), and TV Guide's (11th). It was also included on un-ranked lists from Maureen Ryan of Variety, Mary McNamara of the Los Angeles Times, The Week, and Wired. In December 2015, IGN named Jessica Jones the Netflix's best original series released to date, and it was named one of the Best New Shows of 2015 by Ryan, as well as the tenth best new show of 2015 by Entertainment Weekly's Jeff Jensen. The Atlantic named "AKA WWJD?" one of the best television episodes of 2015. Additionally, Jessica Jones was the second most trending television series search on Google for 2015.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2015	TVLine's Performer of the Week	Performance in "AKA You're a Winner!"	Krysten Ritter	Won
2016	People's Choice Awards	Favorite Sci-Fi/Fantasy TV Actor	David Tennant	Nominated
Critics' Choice Awards	Best Actress in a Drama Series	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Dorian Awards	TV Performance of the Year – Actress	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Empire Awards	Best TV Series	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Peabody Awards	Entertainment and Children's programs	Jessica Jones	Won
Nebula Awards	Ray Bradbury Award for Outstanding Dramatic Presentation	Scott Reynolds, Melissa Rosenberg, and Jamie King (for "AKA Smile")	Nominated
Webby Awards	Special Achievement: Best Actress	Krysten Ritter	Won
Glamour Awards	International TV Actress	Krysten Ritter	Won
Saturn Awards	Best Supporting TV Actor	David Tennant	Nominated
Best TV Actress	Krysten Ritter	Nominated
Best New Media Television Series	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Television Critics Association	Outstanding New Program	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Hugo Awards	Best Dramatic Presentation – Short Form	"AKA Smile"	Won
Gotham Awards	Breakthrough Series – Long Form	Jessica Jones	Nominated
Close ▲
Notes
References
External links
Jessica Jones
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Jessica Jones
Jessica Jones (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
14	1	"AKA Start at the Beginning"	Anna Foerster	Melissa Rosenberg	March8,2018
Super-powered private investigator Jessica Jones has become known as a vigilante hero around New York City since she killed her tormentor Kilgrave. Trish Walker, Jones's best friend and adopted sister, attempts to convince Jones to investigate her past and IGH, the company that gave her abilities, but Jones is not interested. Walker is dealing with declining ratings for her radio show Trish Talk and sees her ex-boyfriend Will Simpson—who was also experimented on by IGH—following her. Pryce Cheng, another investigator, seeks to absorb Jones into his company at the request of lawyer Jeri Hogarth. When Jones attacks and injures Cheng, he plans to sue her with Hogarth, who is already facing a lawsuit from her former assistant and lover. Jones is approached by Robert Coleman, who calls himself "Whizzer" and was given superspeed by IGH. When he is killed in an apparent construction accident, Jones traces his medication to an abandoned building which she remembers being taken to and experimented on.
15	2	"AKA Freak Accident"	Minkie Spiro	Aïda Mashaka Croal	March8,2018
Jones goes to the home of Miklos Kozlov, the IGH doctor who had experimented on Simpson. She finds a shiva for Kozlov, who has died in a "freak accident". One of Kozlov's army patients believes that Simpson is behind this, and Jones suspects that he also killed Coleman. Walker asks Malcolm Ducasse, Jones's neighbor and work partner, to help her rather than further involve the reluctant Jones. Walker confronts Maximilian Tatum, a director, about the sexual relationship they had when she was a child actress working for him, threatening to publicly reveal this unless he helps her get access to records at a hospital he has influence over. After Tatum refuses, Walker runs into Simpson. Jones also arrives, having tracked Walker down when she did not answer her phone. Simpson claims that someone else who was experimented on by IGH has killed Kozlov and Coleman and that he is there to protect Walker, since she was noticed investigating IGH. This other person soon appears and kills Simpson while Jones gets Walker to safety.
16	3	"AKA Sole Survivor"	Mairzee Almas	Lisa Randolph	March8,2018
Hogarth is diagnosed with ALS, and her law-firm partners Steven Benowitz and Linda Chao plan to buy her out based on a clause in their contracts. Jones agrees to investigate the other partners to find blackmail material for Hogarth. Jones receives an eviction notice from her building's new superintendent Oscar Arocho, who fears Jones's abilities. She also discovers the name Leslie Hansen in the abandoned IGH building. Hansen was a doctor at the hospital where Jones was taken following the accident that killed her family. Jones and Walker find Hansen's apartment empty and a charred human head in the basement. Walker uses her radio show to ask the public for information on Hansen and receives a call from a woman claiming to be Hansen. Jones meets with her and learns that she died after the accident but was brought back to life by IGH; the superpowers were a side-effect. Jones angers the woman who escapes using abilities similar to Jones'. DNA analysis shows that the charred head belongs to the real Leslie Hansen.
17	4	"AKA God Help the Hobo"	Deborah Chow	Jack Kenny	March8,2018
Hogarth looks into ways to painlessly end her life, which her doctor does not support. Cheng fires Hogarth for no longer prioritizing him and his lawsuit, and he also offers Ducasse a job at his company; Ducasse turns down the role, and Jones promises to work with him better. Jones and Walker try to find out who the mysterious woman posing as Hansen was, and Jones scares Tatum into getting the IGH files from the hospital. In addition to Jones and Coleman, there is a file on Inez Green. They find her living on the streets, where she explains that she was a nurse at the hospital who was seriously injured by the mysterious woman. Jones and Walker promise to keep her safe. Cheng sends one of his men to steal all of Jones's research from her office, hoping to find something to use against her. The man is attacked by the mysterious woman, who tears him apart. When Jones arrives, she is arrested for the murder. Walker tries to help her using an IGH performance enhancer she took from Simpson but is also arrested. Ducasse takes Green to safety.
18	5	"AKA The Octopus"	Millicent Shelton	Jamie King	March8,2018
Jones spends a day at the police station before Hogarth convinces her to tell the truth. Detective Eddy Costa believes Jones and releases her with the promise that she will keep Costa informed of her investigation. Walker, bailed out by her mother, struggles with after-effects of using the IGH drug. Her new boyfriend Griffin Sinclair asks her to marry him, but Walker turns him down. She takes the IGH drug again. Ducasse takes Green to Hogarth, who agrees to protect her. Hogarth asks Green about IGH's experiments. Jones meets with David Kawecki, an inmate at a mental hospital serving time for the murder of Green's fellow nurse, who was actually killed by the mysterious woman. Jones learns of a shared interest in octopuses that Kawecki has with an IGH doctor and visits the aquarium. She recognizes the doctor, Karl Malus, in a new memory from after the accident. He meets with the mysterious woman, who upon discovering Jones surveilling them, smashes the glass enclosure of an aquarium in order to create a commotion to cover their escape.
19	6	"AKA Facetime"	Jet Wilkinson	Raelle Tucker	March8,2018
Walker becomes addicted to the IGH drug and starts looking for criminals to attack. Security footage from outside the aquarium shows Malus drugging the woman and forcing her to leave with him, despite the pair appearing to be a loving couple before. Jones sends Ducasse to his old university—where he was suspended for his previous drug habit—to investigate Malus; they learn of Justis Ambrose, who attended university with Malus and appears to have been paying for all his personal expenses for years. Jones confronts Ambrose, who explains that his son Eric was born with a fatal genetic defect which Malus cured with his experimental treatments. Eric appears to have no special abilities, and Jones threatens him to gain Malus' location. Green realizes that Hogarth has ALS and tells her that there was an IGH patient that could heal people by touching them, and he saved her life after the woman had attacked her. Jones goes to the location, where she finds Malus and the woman living together. The latter claims to be Jones's mother.
20	7	"AKA I Want Your Cray Cray"	Jennifer Getzinger	Hilly Hicks Jr.	March8,2018
Years earlier, after Brian Jones and his son Phillip are killed in an accident, his wife Alisa and daughter Jessica are rushed to hospital. Dr. Leslie Hansen secretly takes them to IGH. Jessica is saved and returned to hospital in 20 days, but Alisa's injuries are severe and her treatments take years, altering her looks and causing increased strength and extreme mood swings. Jessica is adopted by the Walkers but grows away from her foster family over time, especially after her adopted sister Trish becomes a drug addict at the beginning of her pop-star career. Intent on seeing Jessica, Alisa escapes IGH by killing a nurse and severely injuring Green. She finds Jessica living with a new boyfriend, Stirling Adams, but sees him apparently attempt to exploit her and kills him in a fit of rage. Returning to IGH, Malus promises Alisa that he will cure her of the side effects. Adams' death leads to Jessica re-connecting with Trish, helping her become sober. Now, Jessica refuses to forgive Alisa and attacks her; Malus renders Jessica unconscious with a sedative.
21	8	"AKA Ain't We Got Fun"	Zetna Fuentes	Gabe Fonseca	March8,2018
Trish sleeps with Ducasse, and he notices that she has become addicted to the IGH drug. When she refuses to admit this, he leaves and decides to continue Jessica's investigation into Hogarth's partners. He discovers that Benowitz is secretly gay and frequents a gay bar unbeknownst to his wife. Ducasse tells Benowitz that Chao had hired him, and Benowitz gives Ducasse blackmail material that he has on her. Outside of the gay bar, Ducasse is attacked by homophobic thugs. Trish rescues him and gives him some of the IGH drug to help him heal, but it is too much for Ducasse and he runs off. Hogarth visits Shane Ryback (the man who can heal people with his hands) in prison, taking him on as a client. Jessica calls the police to Malus' house, and he flees. Alisa decides to stay with Jessica, hoping to prove that she is the same person who raised Jessica despite looking different and having extreme mood swings. They go to Jessica's apartment, where they are shot at from outside. Jessica is hit, enraging Alisa.
22	9	"AKA Shark in the Bathtub, Monster in the Bed"	Rosemary Rodriguez	Jenny Klein	March8,2018
Wanting revenge for the death of his man, Cheng tries to kill Alisa. Shooting at her from across the street, he only hits Jessica. Alisa races to find and kill Cheng, but Jessica is able to render him unconscious first and convinces Alisa to find a solution other than murder. Ryback is released from prison, and he attempts to heal Hogarth, but he cannot promise that it will work. During a live broadcast of her radio show, Trish, under the influence of the IGH drug, rails against the superficiality of her show's programming and quits. She is offered a desirable job on television but realizes that she has run out of the drug. Arocho, whose relationship with Jessica has become less hostile and more romantic, comes to Jessica when his ex-wife kidnaps their son Vido. Jessica and Alisa race to save Vido, using their abilities for good. Alisa sees the potential of a life with Jessica doing good like this but still wants to protect Jessica by killing Cheng and running away. Jessica frees Cheng and, when Alisa gives chase, she is confronted by police and surrenders to them.
23	10	"AKA Pork Chop"	Neasa Hardiman	Aïda Mashaka Croal	March8,2018
Hogarth arranges a plea deal for Alisa, where she can avoid the Raft, a superhuman prison, if she gives up Malus. Alisa agrees when Jessica promises to keep Malus safe. Trish struggles with withdrawals during her television audition, where she overhears that the super-powered killer has been caught. Jessica explains everything to Trish and Ducasse but tells them to stay away. She finds Malus and convinces him to go to a country with no extradition so Alisa can talk about him without fear of him being caught. He first waits for a new passport provided by Arocho, and he also tells Jessica that he never treated Ryback. Hogarth does not believe Jessica when she says this, but she arrives home to find Green and Ryback have robbed her (and thus realizes she was not cured). Trish and Ducasse decide to track down Malus themselves, while Jessica discovers that Alisa is being tormented by one of her guards, Dale Holiday. Investigating him, Jessica finds evidence that he has murdered inmates before. He attacks her, and she accidentally kills him in self-defense.
24	11	"AKA Three Lives and Counting"	Jennifer Lynch	Jack Kenny & Lisa Randolph	March8,2018
Jessica makes Holiday's death look like suicide, and she begins having hallucinations of Kilgrave. Trish knocks Ducasse out and restrains him, and she asks Malus to give her abilities like Jessica's. Jessica arrives with the passport from Arocho to give to Malus, to find him gone. She tracks them down just as Ducasse escapes, but Trish manages to get away with Malus. With Holiday dead, Alisa gets a new guard who treats her well. Jessica berates Ducasse for not trusting her and for taking advantage of their working relationship. They both agree that he should no longer work for her. Malus takes Trish to the old IGH facility, where he begins to put her through the same process that changed Jessica and Alisa. Jessica arrives and stops the procedure, and she is then almost convinced by her hallucination of Kilgrave to murder Malus. She stops herself, but he decides to end his own life. Malus destroys the facility with himself inside it, while Jessica gets Trish to the hospital. Alisa learns of Malus' death via a news report, kills her new guard and escapes from prison.
25	12	"AKA Pray for My Patsy"	Liz Friedlander	Raelle Tucker & Hilly Hicks Jr.	March8,2018
Alisa goes looking for Trish, blaming her for Malus' death. She terrorizes the Trish Talk studio, before seeing Trish's mother in an interview discussing why Trish is now hospitalized. She finds Jessica protecting Trish at the hospital but still attempts to kill the latter. When Costa and his partner, Ruth Sunday, arrive they try to arrest Alisa. Jessica tries to talk Alisa down, but Alisa grabs Sunday and jumps out of the hospital, letting Sunday fall to her death. Costa tells Jessica to stay out of the way of the police, but Jessica secretly organizes to meet with Alisa at Trish's apartment. Meanwhile, Trish is angry at Jessica for stopping the procedure early, but she soon begins to have violent convulsions. Hogarth tracks down Green and tells her a fabricated story about Ryback secretly conning multiple women. Giving Green a gun, Hogarth watches her confront Ryback and shoot him. Hogarth then calls the police. At Trish's apartment, Jessica considers killing Alisa but is unable to do it. Alisa knocks Jessica out and kidnaps her.
26	13	"AKA Playland"	Uta Briesewitz	Story by: Jesse Harris
Teleplay by: Melissa Rosenberg	March8,2018
Jessica attempts to resist Alisa but eventually decides to work with her. They drive towards the Mexico–United States border, saving a family caught in a traffic accident on the way. Jessica meets with Arocho to arrange new papers so they can cross the border, but he is followed by the police. Jessica and Alisa then drive towards the Canada–United States border but are confronted with police road blocks. They then go to the nearby amusement park Playland, where Alisa decides to wait until the police arrive. Trish sees a news report on the traffic accident and talks to Costa about the road blocks. Remembering that the Jones family had visited Playland before the accident, Trish goes there and kills Alisa. Jessica takes the blame but does not forgive Trish. Trish later discovers that her reflexes appear to be heightened. Ducasse gives the blackmail material he found to Hogarth, allowing her to leave the law firm with enough money to start her own. Ducasse then begins working for Hogarth as part of Cheng's agency. Jessica embraces some aspects of normal life with Arocho.
Close ▲
Jessica Jones (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
27	1	"A.K.A. The Perfect Burger"	Michael Lehmann	Melissa Rosenberg	June14,2019
Jessica Jones has returned to helping people, albeit in her usual cynical way, starting with returning Cassie Yasden to her mother from Mexico, to which her father Mitch took her after losing a custody battle. She is annoyed when a video of hers dispatching Mitch goes viral. Malcolm Ducasse continues to work for Jeri Hogarth, though he is disturbed by the methods used to help a baseball player client out of a drunk driving incident, which results in another accident that harms the client's career. Hogarth, still suffering from ALS, asks Jones to end her suffering, but she refuses. She visits a former flame, Kith Lyonne, who is married to a law professor named Peter. Dorothy Walker asks Jones to look for her daughter Trish, who has disappeared. Jones refuses at first, but changes her mind just to pacify Dorothy. Jones discovers that Trish has become a vigilante, using enhanced abilities that resulted from Karl Malus' experiment. When Jones intervenes in Trish's confrontation with a criminal, Trish rebuffs Jones. Jones goes to a bar, where she meets the charming Erik Gelden. Jones and Gelden go back to her apartment, but they are ambushed by a masked assailant, who is able to stab Jones in the abdomen with a knife before fleeing.
28	2	"A.K.A. You're Welcome"	Krysten Ritter	Hilly Hicks, Jr.	June14,2019
In flashback, Trish discovers she has enhanced abilities following her killing of Jones' mother Alisa. Believing she would be a better hero than Jones, Trish undergoes extensive physical training to become a vigilante. She spots Jones on the street and calls her, but Jessica hangs up on her. Trish manages to catch a cell phone thief, but he and the victim recognize her, convincing her to adopt a disguise. Later, the thief attempts to sue her for injuring his neck. Malcolm later blackmails him into lowering the cost after discovering that his son, who looks up to him, is actually not his and threatens to tell him the truth. Trish moves into a cheaper apartment, much to Dorothy's chagrin, but continues appearing on television. She begins to stalk Andrew Brandt, a man who put his half-sister in the hospital over a statue that was willed to her. Trish stakes out his apartment before attacking him, during which Jones appears at the scene. In the present, Trish learns of Jones' hospitalization and visits her. They believe that Brandt was behind the attack, and Jones sarcastically thanks Trish for giving her his name.
29	3	"A.K.A. I Have No Spleen"	Anton Cropper	Lisa Randolph	June14,2019
During surgery, Jones has her spleen removed and is only allowed to leave the hospital after agreeing to her new assistant Gillian's demands that she take numerous medications. Jeri meets with Kith for lunch. Later, she has Malcolm dig up incriminating information on Kith's husband Peter in an attempt to break them up. Malcolm plants a camera in Peter's office and discovers him having a tryst with one of his students. However, Kith reveals to Hogarth that she and her husband have an open relationship and will not get attached to her. Jones gets help from Hogarth in finding Brandt's statue, but while toying with Trish, she collapses in the street from dehydration and Trish makes off with her leads. Nevertheless, Jones locates the statue after confronting Trish, then captures and interrogates Brandt, learning her attacker was not Brandt or anyone associated with him and leaves him for Trish. As Jones recollects herself at home, Erik arrives to check up on her, but Jones suddenly has an epiphany and realizes that the attacker was after Erik.
30	4	"A.K.A. Customer Service Is Standing By"	Liesl Tommy	Jamie King	June14,2019
Erik explains that he owed money to criminal Sal Blaskowski and had one week to fulfill it. He reveals that he is an empath and can sense if someone has done wrong, though it causes him pain. Together, Jones and Erik find people he has blackmailed and collect the money while also outing their crimes to the police. Trish picks up on Blaskowski from Erik and breaks into Malcolm's office so that she can continue to investigate her. Malcolm digs up more dirt on Peter and discovers that he has been embezzling from scholarship funds that were made in his daughter's memory. Hogarth decides not to act on releasing this information as it would ruin both Peter and Kith. Erik leaves Jones to give the money to Blaskowski, but she decides to drown him for being late. Trish arrives and rescues him, but accidentally stabs Blaskowski, though she survives. Jones finally finds her attacker: Gregory P. Salinger, an intellectually formidable, psychopathic serial killer. Jones leaves when Salinger threatens to release criminal evidence against her, and reluctantly asks for Trish's help in capturing him.
31	5	"A.K.A. I Wish"	Mairzee Almas	J. Holtham	June14,2019
Jones and Trish begin to stake out Salinger's apartment. When he leaves, Trish breaks in to collect evidence while Jones follows Salinger. She finds out that he has been spying on Erik's sister Brianna, a prostitute. Jones confronts the two and realizes that they are in danger and has Brianna stay at Malcolm's place for protection, though this does not last long as her pimp, Gor, arrives and takes her away. Hogarth changes her mind and releases the information on Peter, devastating Kith. Unable to convince Kith that Hogarth is manipulating them, Peter commits suicide while making a case video against Hogarth. Jones and Trish continue to argue about Alisa's death, with Gillian insisting they work out their differences. Afterwards, they use the evidence they collected to trace Salinger to an abandoned train car that houses the bodies he has collected. Jones sets off a gas trap and Trish rescues her with the two admitting their faults over the Alisa argument as the former speaks with the cops. Later, Salinger ambushes Erik in his hotel room and abducts him.
32	6	"A.K.A. Sorry Face"	Tim Iacofano	Jesse Harris	June14,2019
Salinger begins torturing Erik and trying to get him to confess to "cheating". While doing so, he figures out Erik's empath abilities when he stands close to him and he starts to bleed profusely. Jones learns of Erik's kidnapping and forces Trish to reveal her powers to Dorothy in an attempt to dissuade her from crime fighting, but Dorothy angrily abandons Trish. Malcolm locates Brianna and beats up Gor, ultimately convincing her to return after telling her of Erik's kidnapping and begins an affair with her. Hogarth attempts to apologize to Kith, but is stopped by her son who rebuffs her. The scandal causes many of her clients to leave, though she manages to keep a few. However, her former partner Benowitz steals Rand Enterprises from her. Jones and Trish manage to get a lead on Salinger and find him. They rescue Erik and arrest Salinger. However, Detective Eddy Costa reveals that Salinger will not be tried due to lack of evidence. Erik cannot testify as he will get a year in prison for blackmail and will suffer pain due to his powers. Jones and Erik comfort each other.
33	7	"A.K.A. The Double Half-Wappinger"	Larry Teng	Nancy Won	June14,2019
Hogarth becomes Salinger's attorney, angering Jones. Salinger then slams Jones' actions. Jones and Trish believe that the death of Salinger's brother Donny was his first kill and head to Wappinger Falls to look into it. The local police chief Ronnie Velasco refuses to aid Jones, so she and Trish steal the police files. They believe that Donny's death was an accident, but discover that Salinger had a friend on his high school wrestling team named Nathan Silva who mysteriously disappeared. They visit the Silvas and find that Nathan's body was buried under their gazebo all these years, exposing the crime. Malcolm is upset that Hogarth is helping Salinger, but his girlfriend, Zaya, insists it's part of their job. Hogarth begins looking into the masked vigilante helping Jones and discovers that she has been taking out their clients. Zaya reviews security footage and spots Malcolm interacting with Trish. As Trish gets publicity as a vigilante, Jones and Malcolm confront Salinger at wrestling practice. Salinger taunts Jessica as someone who uses brute force because they lack discipline, and challenges her to a wrestling match. She accepts and is pinned down by him, but she unnerves him by revealing that she knows he killed Nathan, and humiliates him by tossing him about the wrestling mat, to the cheers of the students.
34	8	"A.K.A. Camera Friendly"	Stephen Surjik	Scott Reynolds	June14,2019
Jones receives a video from Salinger teasing his next murder. She recruits Trish to help look for the victim while contacting Costa to check Salinger's apartment. They find a decoy named Joby hired to watch over his home, so Jones films herself destroying Salinger's trophies and diplomas and sends the video to him to taunt him. Malcolm discovers that Zaya doctored the security footage of himself with Trish even though she is angry with him. Later, Hogarth demands that Trish be unmasked for the public and wages war against super powered vigilantes. Dorothy has Jones do an interview with Thembi Wallace which mostly consists of her accusing Salinger and warning his next victim. Jones and Trish go searching for Salinger and believe that his next victim will be Mona Lee of GT Agrochemical. Salinger shows up at his apartment apparently clean of any wrongdoing. After escaping paparazzi, Jones realizes that Dorothy is Salinger's next victim. Trish finds her mother murdered by Salinger, then races to Salinger's apartment to kill him with Jones rushing to stop her.
35	9	"A.K.A. I Did Something Today"	Jennifer Getzinger	Lisa Randolph	June14,2019
Trish seriously injures Salinger before Jones stops her and they escape. She is sent a photo of proof of Trish's attack by a hospitalized Salinger, who threatens to release it unless Jones destroys all evidence of Nathan's death. To save Trish, a reluctant Jones and Erik force one of Erik's blackmailed associates, Officer Carl Nussbaumer, to lead them into the forensics lab, where Jones successfully removes the evidence. Trish, however, is upset over Jones choosing her over Salinger as that means he will walk free. Hogarth is approached by Kith's son, Laurent in helping them in a case against former supporter Demetri Patseras. Hogarth confronts Kith and admits that she is still in love with her. Kith later accepts Hogarth's help. Malcolm comes clean with the footage, but claims that he doctored it himself and quits. While looking over the undoctored footage, Hogarth sees that Trish is the masked vigilante. Costa visits Jones' apartment and tells her he's been forced into taking a sabbatical for losing the evidence. The next day, investigators arrive and suspect Jones of murdering Nussbaumer.
36	10	"A.K.A. Hero Pants"	Sanford Bookstaver	Hilly Hicks, Jr. & Jamie King	June14,2019
The investigators cannot find any evidence on Jones, but they do find a folder on Nussbaumer which Jones allows them to take. As Trish prepares for Dorothy's funeral, she is approached by the investigators and insists that Jones is innocent. Jones begins to suspect Erik of the murder. Malcolm asks to rejoin Alias Investigations, to which Jones accepts; assigning him to look into the files of Jace Montero. He soon breaks up with Zaya due to their differing work. A sober Brianna returns to stay at his place and the two begin a relationship. Kith comes to Hogarth about Patseras. She angrily tells her to stop using her dirty tactics, but when Patseras accuses her of fraud, she accepts her help in "coloring outside the line[s]". Jones and Trish reminisce about Dorothy and attend the funeral. Gillian calls Jones and informs her that the police have a warrant for her arrest. Jones realizes that Trish murdered Nussbaumer and leaves. Later, she attempts to trail Trish, but is suddenly arrested. Later, Erik watches in horror as Trish attacks and murders Montero in his trailer office.
37	11	"A.K.A. Hellcat"	Jennifer Getzinger	Jane Espenson	June14,2019
In flashback, Dorothy forces Trish to take up acting after their father "leaves". Through a series of calculated plans, Dorothy has Trish earn a coveted leading role for a sitcom on ABC, claiming that she "owes the world". After discovering her mother dead, Trish goes after Salinger, but is stopped by Jones, who tries to comfort her. She approaches Erik about helping out with catching criminals, and they go after Nussbaumer by recording a confession. Trish accidentally kills him in a rage and Erik's headaches go away. When Jones is suspected of murdering Nussbaumer, Trish and Erik plot to divert the investigators by attacking Montero and taking responsibility for Nussbaumer. Hogarth approaches Trish with her knowledge of her activities and asks her to steal something from Patseras. Erik is revealed to have called the cops on Jones so that she would have an alibi. Trish and Erik confront Montero, but an enraged Trish ends up murdering Montero. Convinced killing is more effective, Trish decides to continue with this method as Erik's headaches return.
38	12	"A.K.A. A Lotta Worms"	Sarah Boyd	Scott Reynolds	June14,2019
Jones is let go from police custody and returns to Alias Investigations to find Erik recuperating. He tells her that Trish is now killing victims intentionally and Jones rushes to the hospital to save Salinger from Trish. She takes him to Hogarth, but he opts to go back to his apartment and wait for Trish to arrive and attack him. Instead, Jones arrives to set a trap for Trish, which is successful. Malcolm and Erik knock her out while Jones steals the camera that contained the picture of Trish attacking Salinger. Malcolm has Trish chained up in her apartment while he watches her. Salinger later restrains Jones at her apartment and begins torturing her to get her to confess to being a "fraud". When Salinger mentions killing Dorothy, Jones reveals she had recorded his confession, and subdues Salinger; leaving him for the police. With Salinger arrested, Jones frees Trish and encourages her to move on. However, Trish is still overcome with anger and murders Salinger while he is being transported to prison, before escaping and murdering several random bystanders. Hogarth, Costa, and Jones find his beaten and mutilated body in an elevator.
39	13	"A.K.A. Everything"	Neasa Hardiman	Story by: Melissa Rosenberg & Nancy Won
Teleplay by: Melissa Rosenberg & Lisa Randolph	June14,2019
As Jones solemnly returns to her apartment, she is greeted by Luke Cage, who tells her that the hardest thing he did was send his brother, Willis Stryker, to the Raft. Knowing what she has to do, Jones decides to track Trish down. After Trish aborts her violent confrontation with Patseras due to the intervention of his frightened daughter, Hogarth lures Trish to her home so Jones can catch her. When Trish holds Kith hostage, Hogarth leaves with Trish to help her escape the country. Shortly after, Jones leaks to the news Trish's identity as the masked vigilante. Jones finds Trish attempting to escape and defeats her after she tries to stab her. As Trish is being processed, it dawns on her that she is the "bad guy". Jones gives Malcolm the keys to Alias Investigations and sees Trish being taken to the Raft. Kith breaks things off with Hogarth. Costa introduces himself to Erik and offers him a chance to work with the police. Jones tries to leave for Mexico, but after hearing Kilgrave's voice tell her to leave everyone behind, she has a change of heart and decides to stay in New York.
Close ▲
