Daredevil (TV series)
2015–2018 Marvel Television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Kingpin (character)
Vanessa Fisk
Jon Bernthal
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Daredevil (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Marvel's Daredevil is an American television series created by Drew Goddard for the streaming service Netflix, based on the Marvel Comics character Daredevil. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), acknowledging the continuity of the franchise's films, and was the first Marvel Netflix series leading to the crossover miniseries The Defenders. Daredevil was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios. Steven S. DeKnight served as showrunner for the first season, with Doug Petrie and Marco Ramirez taking over as co-showrunners for the second, and Erik Oleson joining the series as showrunner for the third; Goddard served as a consultant for the series.

Quick facts: Daredevil, Genre, Created by, Based on, Starr... ▼
Daredevil
Daredevil_%28TV_series%29_logo.jpg
Genre
Created by	Drew Goddard
Based on
Starring
Theme music composer
John Paesano
Braden Kimball
Composer	John Paesano
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	3
No. of episodes	39
Production
Executive producers
Allie Goss
Kris Henigman
Cindy Holland
Alan Fine
Stan Lee
Joe Quesada
Dan Buckley
Jim Chory
Jeph Loeb
Drew Goddard
Steven S. DeKnight (season 1)
Marco Ramirez (season 2)
Doug Petrie (season 2)
Erik Oleson (season 3)
Producer	Kati Johnston
Production location	New York City
Cinematography
Matthew J. Lloyd
Martin Ahlgren
Petr Hlinomaz
Editors
Jonathan Chibnall
Monty DeGraff
Jo Francis
Michael N. Knue
Damien Smith
Running time	46–61 minutes
Production companies
Original release
Network	Netflix
Release	April 10, 2015–
October 19, 2018
Related
Marvel's Netflix television series
The Punisher
Daredevil: Born Again
Close ▲
Charlie Cox stars as Matt Murdock / Daredevil, a blind lawyer-by-day who fights crime as a masked vigilante by night. Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson, Rosario Dawson, and Vincent D'Onofrio also star, with Toby Leonard Moore, Vondie Curtis-Hall, Bob Gunton, and Ayelet Zurer joining them for season one, Jon Bernthal, Élodie Yung, and Stephen Rider joining the cast for season two, and Joanne Whalley, Jay Ali and Wilson Bethel joining in season three. Daredevil entered development in late 2013, a year after the film rights to the character reverted to Marvel, with Goddard initially hired in December 2013. Cox was cast in May 2014, and the Daredevil costume was designed by Ryan Meinerding of Marvel Studios' design team. The series was intended to be darker than other Marvel projects, intentionally avoiding crossovers with the wider MCU and focusing on a crime fiction style that was inspired by 1970s films. Design inspiration was taken from the Hell's Kitchen setting of the comics, with filming taking place in New York City.

The first season was released in its entirety on Netflix on April 10, 2015, followed by the second on March 18, 2016, and the third on October 19, 2018. They were met with positive reviews, and received numerous accolades including several nominations for Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards. A spin-off series centered on Bernthal's character Frank Castle / Punisher, titled The Punisher, was ordered by Netflix in April 2016. Netflix canceled Daredevil on November 29, 2018. It, along with the rest of Netflix's Marvel series were removed from Netflix and added to Disney+ in March 2022, after Disney regained the license for them. Beginning in 2021, Cox and D'Onofrio reprised their roles as Murdock and Wilson Fisk / Kingpin in MCU projects produced by Marvel Studios, including a new series, Daredevil: Born Again, which is in development for Disney+.

Premise
The first season sees lawyer-by-day Matt Murdock use his heightened senses from being blinded as a young boy to fight crime at night on the streets of New York City's Hell's Kitchen neighborhood as Daredevil while uncovering a conspiracy of the criminal underworld being led by Wilson Fisk. In the second season, Murdock continues to balance life as a lawyer and Daredevil, while crossing paths with Frank Castle / Punisher, a vigilante with far deadlier methods, as well as the return of an ex-girlfriend—Elektra Natchios. In the third season, after Fisk is released from prison, Murdock, who has been missing for months following the events of The Defenders, reemerges as a broken man and must decide between hiding from the world as a criminal lawyer, or embracing his life as a hero vigilante.

Cast and characters
Cast of Daredevil at the 2015 New York Comic Con (L to R: Cox, Woll, Henson, Bernthal, Yung)
Cast of Daredevil at the 2015 New York Comic Con (L to R: Cox, Woll, Henson, Bernthal, Yung)
Main article: List of Daredevil (TV series) characters
Charlie Cox as Matt Murdock / Daredevil:
A blind lawyer who leads a double life as the vigilante Daredevil. Season one showrunner Steven DeKnight explained that Murdock is "not super strong. He's not invulnerable [...] he just has senses that are better than a normal human's." On the character's "grey" morals, he noted, "He's a lawyer by day, and he's taken this oath. But every night he breaks that oath, and goes out and does very violent things." The character's Catholicism plays a large role in the series, with DeKnight calling him "one of the most, if not the most, religious characters in the Marvel Universe". Cox worked with blind consultant Joe Strechay, and was conscious of what his eyes were doing at all times, to ensure they would not look at or react to something unlike a blind person. Skylar Gaertner plays a young Matt Murdock.
Deborah Ann Woll as Karen Page:
An enigmatic young woman whose quest for justice sends her crashing into Murdock's life. After portraying Jessica Hamby in True Blood from 2008 to 2014, Woll specifically tried to "steer differently than that" with Page. Woll noted that Page's backstory would be different from the one from the comics, saying, "In the comic books, in the beginning Karen is very innocent, and then towards the end she's really swung a full 180, she's in a lot of trouble, so I wanted to find a way to make her both of those things at the same time. Can she be a really wonderful, kind person who is a little bit attracted to danger? She's not just always getting into trouble because 'Oh, silly woman!' Karen is actually looking for it, and she won't let her fear stop her from finding the truth."
Elden Henson as Franklin "Foggy" Nelson:
Murdock's best friend and law partner. In April 2015, Henson spoke of his excitement for the character's role in the series, saying "I was really excited as I was getting the scripts and reading that Foggy wasn't just a useless sidekick. He's not just comic relief. I mean, he is some of those things. He does have comic relief, but it was exciting to know that these other characters would have their own path and their own things that they're dealing with."
Toby Leonard Moore as James Wesley: Wilson Fisk's right-hand man. Moore described Wesley as both charming and "dastardly as all hell".
Vondie Curtis-Hall as Ben Urich: An investigative journalist for the New York Bulletin.
Bob Gunton as Leland Owlsley: A Wall Street financialist, accountant, and a key figure in Wilson Fisk's plans for Hell's Kitchen.
Ayelet Zurer as Vanessa Marianna-Fisk: An art gallery employee who, unlike the comic version, knows of and accepts Wilson Fisk's true dealings and eventually marries him.
Rosario Dawson as Claire Temple:
A nurse who helps Murdock. The character is an amalgam of the comic characters Claire Temple and Night Nurse. The character was originally going to be "the actual Night Nurse", but was merged with Temple when the writers learned that Marvel Studios had plans for that character in their films. Dawson explained that Temple "is a normal person and she becomes more heroic in a way that she maybe didn't expect", and "She's not a love interest—she's this skeptical eye looking at this strange situation. She's the one who can be like, 'You're not really good at this.' That makes it feel more real."
Vincent D'Onofrio as Wilson Fisk / Kingpin:
A powerful businessman and crime lord whose interests in the future of Hell's Kitchen brings him into conflict with Murdock and Daredevil. D'Onofrio stated that he hoped his portrayal of Fisk was a new way to look at the character, and that it would be the definitive portrayal of Fisk. DeKnight detailed that "Fisk has very many different aspects so it's not all, "I want to conquer the city and make a lot of money". In our story, we tell the story of how he met his wife Vanessa and how they fell in love". He also said that "if you're looking for a juicy, multi-faceted crime drama, Wilson Fisk was the obvious choice to play the antagonist [...] [he] really felt like the right yin to the yang for Matt, and for what we wanted to do this season." Cole Jensen plays a young Wilson Fisk.
Jon Bernthal as Frank Castle / Punisher:
A vigilante who aims to clean up Hell's Kitchen by any means necessary, no matter how lethal the results. DeKnight said this version of Punisher would be "completely the Marvel version", as previous portrayals did not appear under the Marvel Studios / Marvel Television banner. He also felt Bernthal's Punisher would not be as "graphically violent" as in Punisher: War Zone. Season two showrunner Doug Petrie stated that Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver was an influence on the character, as well as current events, saying, "Taking lethal justice into your own hands in America in 2015 is tricky shit. We have not shied away from the rich complicated reality of Now. If you've got a gun and you're not the police you're going to incite strong feelings." Bernthal added that "This character has resonated with law enforcement and military [...] and the best thing about him is that if he offends you, he just doesn't care."
Élodie Yung as Elektra Natchios:
A mysterious and dangerous woman from Murdock's past. The character was referred to in the first season, before Yung was cast in the role. Describing Elektra's effect on Murdock, Petrie called her "the best bad girlfriend you can possibly have. She does everything wrong and attractive, she's [Matt's] id, the wild side. Matt is always taming his wild side. Elektra just lets it out. He's both repulsed and deeply drawn to that." Yung described Elektra as "kind of a sociopath. This world is a game for her. It's like a chess game, and what motivates her is what she wants. She'll use anything she needs to use to get to her goal, and if she needs to kill people, she would." She added that Elektra is neither good nor bad, but a "person with different traits" and layers. Lily Chee plays a young Elektra.
Stephen Rider as Blake Tower: A New York district attorney who assists Daredevil with information to help track down and capture criminals
Joanne Whalley as Maggie Grace: A nun with strong opinions who speaks her mind, and cares for Murdock as he recovers from his injuries. She is later revealed to be Murdock's mother.
Jay Ali as Rahul "Ray" Nadeem: An honest and ambitious FBI agent who takes on Fisk's case.
Wilson Bethel as Benjamin "Dex" Poindexter:
A psychopathic FBI agent who is able to use almost any object as a lethal projectile. Bethel described his character as "a really nuanced portrait of a man with some very serious psychological issues", and said that to prepare for the role, he had to read up on experiences of psychoses and schizophrenia. Furthermore, he said Dex needed the "structure of the bureau to keep the darkness inside him subdued". Executive producer Jeph Loeb said the character's interaction with Wilson Fisk would corrupt Poindexter and turn him into a Daredevil adversary.
Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally released
1	13	April10,2015
2	13	March18,2016
3	13	October19,2018
Season 1 (2015)
Main article: Daredevil (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"Into the Ring"	Phil Abraham	Drew Goddard	April10,2015
2	2	"Cut Man"	Phil Abraham	Drew Goddard	April10,2015
3	3	"Rabbit in a Snowstorm"	Adam Kane	Marco Ramirez	April10,2015
4	4	"In the Blood"	Ken Girotti	Joe Pokaski	April10,2015
5	5	"World on Fire"	Farren Blackburn	Luke Kalteux	April10,2015
6	6	"Condemned"	Guy Ferland	Joe Pokaski & Marco Ramirez	April10,2015
7	7	"Stick"	Brad Turner	Douglas Petrie	April10,2015
8	8	"Shadows in the Glass"	Stephen Surjik	Steven S. DeKnight	April10,2015
9	9	"Speak of the Devil"	Nelson McCormick	Christos Gage & Ruth Fletcher Gage	April10,2015
10	10	"Nelson v. Murdock"	Farren Blackburn	Luke Kalteux	April10,2015
11	11	"The Path of the Righteous"	Nick Gomez	Steven S. DeKnight & Douglas Petrie	April10,2015
12	12	"The Ones We Leave Behind"	Euros Lyn	Douglas Petrie	April10,2015
13	13	"Daredevil"	Steven S. DeKnight	Steven S. DeKnight	April10,2015
Close ▲
Season 2 (2016)
Main article: Daredevil (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
14	1	"Bang"	Phil Abraham	Douglas Petrie & Marco Ramirez	March18,2016
15	2	"Dogs to a Gunfight"	Phil Abraham	Marco Ramirez & Douglas Petrie	March18,2016
16	3	"New York's Finest"	Marc Jobst	Mark Verheiden	March18,2016
17	4	"Penny and Dime"	Peter Hoar	John C. Kelley	March18,2016
18	5	"Kinbaku"	Floria Sigismondi	Lauren Schmidt Hissrich	March18,2016
19	6	"Regrets Only"	Andy Goddard	Sneha Koorse	March18,2016
20	7	"Semper Fidelis"	Ken Girotti	Luke Kalteux	March18,2016
21	8	"Guilty as Sin"	Michael Uppendahl	Whit Anderson	March18,2016
22	9	"Seven Minutes in Heaven"	Stephen Surjik	Marco Ramirez & Lauren Schmidt Hissrich	March18,2016
23	10	"The Man in the Box"	Peter Hoar	Story by: John C. Kelley
Teleplay by: Whit Anderson & Sneha Koorse	March18,2016
24	11	".380"	Stephen Surjik	Mark Verheiden	March18,2016
25	12	"The Dark at the End of the Tunnel"	Euros Lyn	Lauren Schmidt Hissrich & Douglas Petrie	March18,2016
26	13	"A Cold Day in Hell's Kitchen"	Peter Hoar	Douglas Petrie & Marco Ramirez	March18,2016
Close ▲
Season 3 (2018)
Main article: Daredevil (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
27	1	"Resurrection"	Marc Jobst	Erik Oleson	October19,2018
28	2	"Please"	Lukas Ettlin	Jim Dunn	October19,2018
29	3	"No Good Deed"	Jennifer Getzinger	Sonay Hoffman	October19,2018
30	4	"Blindsided"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Lewaa Nasserdeen	October19,2018
31	5	"The Perfect Game"	Julian Holmes	Tonya Kong	October19,2018
32	6	"The Devil You Know"	Stephen Surjik	Dylan Gallagher	October19,2018
33	7	"Aftermath"	Toa Fraser	Sarah Streicher	October19,2018
34	8	"Upstairs/Downstairs"	Alex Zakrzewski	Dara Resnik	October19,2018
35	9	"Revelations"	Jennifer Lynch	Erik Oleson & Sam Ernst	October19,2018
36	10	"Karen"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Tamara Becher-Wilkinson	October19,2018
37	11	"Reunion"	Jet Wilkinson	Jim Dunn & Dara Resnik	October19,2018
38	12	"One Last Shot"	Phil Abraham	Sam Ernst	October19,2018
39	13	"A New Napkin"	Sam Miller	Erik Oleson	October19,2018
Close ▲
Production
Development
In April 2013, Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige confirmed that the film rights to Daredevil and his associated characters reverted to Marvel from 20th Century Fox in October 2012, allowing those characters to be used within the Marvel Cinematic Universe. As explained by head of Marvel Television Jeph Loeb in 2015, Marvel Studios had "first dibs" on the character once the rights had reverted. Drew Goddard pitched a new Daredevil film to Marvel, but Marvel was not looking to create an R-rated film, and Goddard did not want a "watered down version" of the character, as he also explained in 2015: "I went into Marvel and talked to them about making it as a movie a couple of years ago, long after the Affleck movie. But what we all sort of realized is that, this movie doesn't want to cost $200million. The thing about Matt Murdock is, he's not saving the world. He's just keeping his corner clean. So it would feel wrong to have spaceships crashing in the middle of the city. But because of that, Marvel on the movie side is not in the business of making $25million movies. They're going big, as they should". Marvel Studios eventually decided that the character would be better served in a television series. Although Feige had plans to use Daredevil in the films, the superiors of Marvel Entertainment ordered Marvel Studios to focus the films on the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy so the characters whose rights they had regained could help build a planned "television empire" under their direct control.

In October 2013, Deadline Hollywood reported that Marvel was preparing four drama series and a miniseries, totaling 60 episodes, to present to video on demand services and cable providers, with Netflix, Amazon and WGN America expressing interest. A few weeks later, Disney announced that Marvel Television and ABC Studios would provide Netflix with live action series centered around Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist, and Luke Cage, leading up to a miniseries based on the Defenders. This format was chosen due to the success of The Avengers (2012), for which the characters of Iron Man, The Hulk, Captain America, and Thor were all introduced separately before being teamed up in that film. In December, Goddard was officially hired as executive producer and showrunner for Daredevil, and was happy with the change to television from his film idea "because you can take time and deal with these smaller things, which to me are much more interesting on a character level". However, Marvel announced in May 2014 that Goddard had stepped down as showrunner to focus on directing a feature film based on Marvel's Sinister Six team for Sony Pictures Entertainment. Goddard, who wrote the first two episodes of the series, remained with the show as a consultant while Steven S. DeKnight took over as showrunner. The series was officially titled Daredevil, with Loeb, Jim Chory, Dan Buckley, Joe Quesada, Stan Lee, Alan Fine, Cindy Holland, Kris Henigman, Allie Goss, and Peter Friedlander also serving as executive producers.

In April 2015, Marvel and Netflix announced that Daredevil had been renewed for a second season, but DeKnight would not be returning due to prior commitments. He was replaced as showrunner by Doug Petrie and Marco Ramirez, who served as writers for the first season and worked closely with DeKnight and Goddard. Petrie, Ramirez, Alison Engel, and Mark Verheiden became executive producers for the second season, while Friedlander left the show. The series was renewed for a third season in July 2016, with Petrie and Ramirez intended to return as showrunners, but Erik Oleson was announced in October 2017 to be taking over as showrunner.

Writing
Elements of the series storyline were adapted from Frank Miller and John Romita Jr.'s 1993 miniseries Daredevil: The Man Without Fear, a retelling of the character's origin. Goddard had been a longtime fan of Daredevil after being raised Catholic, and identifying with the character's story of a "Catholic superhero struggling with the notions of right and wrong". He did not want to be "a guy that just takes the comics and then shoots them onscreen. I think it's our job to treat it as if it's our run. If I'm the writer of a comic book, you wouldn't just retell someone else's story, you would just take that ball and move it forward."

In August 2014, when talking about the series in comparison to the 2003 film, Ted Sarandos said, "The series will not be afraid to go darker than the film did. What we love about this particular set of heroes is that they're a little more down to Earth. Costume wise and also in that these are gritty crime stories, more in the streets than in the clouds." Elaborating on this, DeKnight said, "It is a little grittier and edgier than Marvel has gone before, but we're not looking to push it to extreme graphic violence, gratuitous nudity or anything like that. The story does not require that and I think [it] would suffer if you pushed it that far." Marvel Television head and executive producer Loeb later stated that, "There aren't going to be people flying through the sky; there are no magic hammers. We've always approached this as a crime drama first, superhero show second." DeKnight took inspiration from The French Connection (1971), Dog Day Afternoon (1975), and Taxi Driver (1976), and stated that "we would rather lean toward The Wire than what's considered a classic superhero television show."

Loeb compared the series' approach to telling stories over multiple seasons to "the world of publishing, where you have the Frank Miller, you have the Brian Bendis run, you have the Ed Brubaker run. I was lucky enough to do Daredevil: Yellow. But they feel different. They have different elements to them. Same cast. In many cases, same tone. But a different adventure [...] you can watch Daredevil season two without having seen Daredevil season one. But if you watch each of them, it's like getting two different books. It's closer to the world of the graphic novel than it is to the world of the ongoing, serialized show."

Casting
At the end of May 2014, Charlie Cox was cast as Matt Murdock / Daredevil. Cox was the first choice for the role, suggested by Quesada in 2012 before Marvel Studios regained the rights to the character from the former 20th Century Fox. On June 10, Marvel announced that Vincent D'Onofrio would portray Wilson Fisk / Kingpin in the series, and on June 20, Rosario Dawson joined the cast. A few days later, Elden Henson was cast as Foggy Nelson, while on July 17, Deborah Ann Woll was cast as Karen Page. On October 11, Dawson's role was revealed to be Claire Temple, a character resembling that of Night Nurse, while Ayelet Zurer, Bob Gunton, Toby Leonard Moore, and Vondie Curtis-Hall joined the series as Vanessa Mariana, Leland Owlsley, James Wesley, and Ben Urich, respectively.

In June 2015, Marvel announced that Jon Bernthal was cast as Frank Castle / Punisher for the second season, joining season one returners Cox, Woll, Henson, Dawson, and D'Onofrio. The next month, Élodie Yung was cast as Elektra Natchios, a character that had been mentioned already in the first season. In September 2015, Stephen Rider joined the cast in the role of Blake Tower. Cox, Woll, Henson, D'Onofrio, and Rider return for the third season. Wilson Bethel was revealed to be joining them in November 2017, as Benjamin "Dex" Poindexter, with Joanne Whalley joining as Sister Maggie Grace by January 2018, and Jay Ali joining as FBI agent Rahul "Ray" Nadeem by March 2018. Zurer has a guest appearance in the season.

On the casting process, DeKnight stated that "You just have to hope you find the right way. Luckily our cast came together, and I couldn't have been happier. No one will ever perfectly fit what's in your head. For me, the more important thing is not whether or not they look the part, but if they feel the part." Laray Mayfield and Julie Schubert served as casting directors on the series. In December 2017, D'Onofrio revealed he had "a standing agreement with Jeph Loeb", created before the first season, that allowed him to "come in and out of the show", with an unspecified amount of notice given when Marvel hoped to use D'Onofrio in the series.

Design
Costumes
Costume designer Stephanie Maslansky, talking about the inspiration and vision for the series, said "Daredevil is rooted in the authentically gritty New York City neighborhood, Hell's Kitchen where Matt Murdock grew up. In the comics—particularly those of the Frank Miller era in the early 1990s—there were detailed illustrations we endeavored to bring to life in a grounded, gritty, and updated way, with respect and a strong nod to the original characters. We wanted to pick up where the comics version left off. I studied the illustrations from The Man Without Fear, Daredevil Yellow, and the issues of the 1960s, to which the newer collections pay homage. I wanted the costume design to reflect the illustrations of those volumes through a modern lens while maintaining a retro sensibility." Joshua Shaw, who has also done design work on Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., helped design costumes for several characters on Daredevil, while Lorraine Calvert took over as costume designer for the second season.

For Daredevil's red suit, introduced at the end of the first season, Marvel Comics' Chief creative officer Quesada contacted Ryan Meinerding and the costume artists and design team at Marvel Studios, who all contributed design ideas, with one of Meinerding's ultimately being picked. Quesada, who previously worked as an artist on Daredevil comics, gave several suggestions, including the incorporation of some of how New York was created into the suit, which led to the use of rivets and "architectural" shapes. The suit is intended to look like a Kevlar vest, and the black sections are an homage to comic panels where the artists highlighted certain areas with red, with "deeper portions" in shadow. On the mask, Meinerding noted the difficulty in designing the entire top half of a face that is intended to match the bottom half of an actor's face, "because half of his face has to be covered and has its own expression and the actor's face is going to be doing something else". For the billy clubs used by Daredevil in the series, which were designed by Andy Park, "There was a discussion early in the process, because Charlie Cox [and his stunt double] Chris Brewster are both right handed, of having the billy clubs holster on the right leg. But Daredevil wears those billy clubs on the left hand side. So while it would have been easier to place the holster on the right we all felt that we had to keep to the classic profile and keep them on the left."

The suit was upgraded for the second season, with Calvert calling it "a much more fluid suit and much more tactical in a way." The costume department "streamlined" the suit to make it simpler, using less material on the gauntlets and boots. Cox described the changes as "tweaks" that were needed after seeing the suit in action in the first season, and noted that the changes are woven into the storyline of the season, including the need for a new, redesigned mask.

Title sequence
Quick facts: External video... ▼
Close ▲
The opening title sequence was created by Elastic. The company previously created the title sequence for True Detective, which had stood out to the creators in terms of "imagination and delivering on what the show was about". DeKnight explained that multiple companies had made pitches to the creative team involving "variations of the same idea, where you zoom in on an eye and you see a sonar map of the city." However, one of Elastic's pitches had "fluid-like blood dripping over everything [...] as if paint were covering something invisible and revealing it", which both DeKnight and Loeb wanted to use immediately.

Elastic's Creative Director Patrick Clair "came up with the idea of making a red world that was revealed by liquid." Simulating the CG liquid, which was meant to be an ambiguous reference to poison and blood that behaved like "something in between liquid chocolate and tar", was difficult, with Clair saying "It's hard to make an algorithm act 'insidious'". CG Lead Andrew Romatz elaborated that "Developing the right consistency and behavior of the fluids was definitely a tricky process. Getting the scale to feel right was something that we had to play with quite a bit in simulation and also in lighting and texturing. Patrick wanted the sculptures we were forming to feel like miniatures, so we did a lot of experimenting with scene scale and with camera settings, simulating depth of field to achieve that look." Fluids Lead Miguel A. Salek stated that "Each shot required custom flow maps to be painted on the sculptures, along with small attraction fields and thousands of tiny adjustments to achieve the shapes and behavior Patrick was looking for. In the end I simulated hundreds of tests and thousands of frames of fluids to achieve just the right balance for each shot." Due to time constraints, references to Murdock's boxing history such as a punching bag and boxing ring were cut from the final sequence. The final sequence was animated to a temp track—"an old piece of 90s trip hop"—before John Paesano's music for the sequence was completed.

Filming
Filming for the series takes place in New York City, in areas of Brooklyn and Long Island City that still look like the old Hell's Kitchen, in addition to soundstage work. The production has an eight-day-per-episode shooting schedule. On the feel of the show, DeKnight stated, "We're going for a gritty, 1970s New York feel for the show. We love the idea of beauty and the decay of the city, and Hell's Kitchen being a place that's both beautiful and gritty at the same time. And that's why Matt Murdock loves it and wants to protect it." The series' action sequences take inspiration from The Raid films.

Visual effects
Visual effects for the series were completed by the New York studio Shade VFX. Bryan Goswin serves as visual effects supervisor.

Music
It was revealed that John Paesano would be composing the music for the series in October 2014. The main theme of the series, which was co-composed by Braden Kimball, is derived from Paesano's original demo for the series, which he submitted during the auditioning process. Paesano noted that it is rare for such material to be incorporated into a final score like this. A soundtrack album for the first season was released digitally on April 27, 2015, for the second season on July 15, 2016, and for the third season on October 19, 2018.

Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
If you live in New York, there are things that are going on all the time. I would never make light of the tragedy of 9/11, but 9/11 affected different neighborhoods in very different ways. They were all aware that this had happened, but the further down you got towards that area, the more affected you were by it. So we started with that sort of idea, that if the sky opened up and Chitauri were raining down with giant whales, and the Hulk and the Avengers were there to save the day, that's really exciting, but how did that affect the people who were six blocks over and three avenues down? That's the richness of the Marvel Universe. You can have that sort of thing happen and refer to it, but not have it be– we're not the world of the comics where you look up in the sky and Thor flies by all the time. This is a world where people do refer to Tony Stark as a billionaire in a tin suit, or the idea that they think there's a Thor out there with a magic hammer. But the truth of the matter is, 'I've never seen him. Have you ever seen him?' It's that kind of world that we exist in. For us, it makes Marvel what Marvel has always been, which is grounded.

Jeph Loeb on the opportunities that Daredevil existing within the Marvel Cinematic Universe presents.

Daredevil was the first of the Marvel Netflix series, and was followed by Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, and Iron Fist, which led to the miniseries The Defenders. In November 2013, Disney CEO Bob Iger stated that, if the characters prove popular on Netflix, "It's quite possible that they could become feature films," which Sarandos echoed in July 2015. In August 2014, D'Onofrio stated that after the "series stuff with Netflix", Marvel has "a bigger plan to branch out". In December 2014, Loeb explained that "Within the Marvel universe there are thousands of heroes of all shapes and sizes, but the Avengers are here to save the universe and Daredevil is here to save the neighborhood [...] It does take place in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. It's all connected. But that doesn't necessarily mean that we would look up in the sky and see [Iron Man]. It's just a different part of New York that we have not yet seen in the Marvel movies." Dawson later elaborated that "When you've got that level of superpowers, the fighting is different, the stakes are different, and it has a grander feel. In that world, they exist in it, so they know it and it's normal to them. But in reality when people are fighting and doing really bad, elicit [sic] crimes on the ground and there are guns and drugs—bones are going to break. People aren't hitting each other and nothing's going to happen because they're indestructible. These are people. They're vulnerable and you get to experience that."

In March 2015, Loeb spoke on the ability for the series to crossover with the MCU films and the ABC television series, saying, "As it is now, in the same way that our films started out as self-contained and then by the time we got to The Avengers, it became more practical for Captain America to do a little crossover into Thor 2 (2013) and for Bruce Banner to appear at the end of Iron Man 3 (2013). We have to earn that. The audience needs to understand who all of these characters are and what the world is before you then start co-mingling in terms of where it's going." In April, Cox stated that crossing over with the films is "possible. I think there's a way that the worlds can merge. I think our show feels tonally and thematically a bit different from the Avengers movies, but it's all one universe and I feel like there's a way for Daredevil—and other characters, Luke Cage and street level crime characters—to fit into that universe. I think there has to be a way, and I think it's about finding an autonomous tone for that [crossover] film". Cox also said that he is contractually obligated to appear in films if asked by Marvel. Cox expressed interest in making a cameo appearance in Captain America: Civil War (2016) due to Daredevil's presence in Mark Millar's 2006-2007 "Civil War" crossover storyline, which inspired the film, but acknowledged that he might had "missed the boat" due to principal photography having already commenced by that point. While writing Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely talked about possibly including Daredevil and Luke Cage in the film's scenes taking place in New York City but felt that including them for quick cameos would not have satisfied the audiences.

Marketing
Disney Consumer Products created a small line of products to cater to a more adult audience, given the show's edgier tone. Paul Gitter, senior VP of Marvel Licensing for Disney Consumer Products explained that the focus would be more on teens and adults than very young people, with products at outlets like Hot Topic. Additionally, a Marvel Knights merchandise program was created to support the series, which creates new opportunities for individual product lines and collector focused products. Licensing partners wanted to pair up with Marvel, despite this not being a film project, given its previous successes.

Release
Streaming
Daredevil was released on the streaming service Netflix, in all territories where it is available, in Ultra HD 4K and High-dynamic-range video (HDR). The first two seasons were enhanced to be available in HDR after their initial release by post-production vendor Deluxe. The episodes for each season were released simultaneously, as opposed to a serialized format, to encourage binge-watching, a format which has been used for other Netflix original series. Daredevil was the first Netflix original series to receive its Descriptive Video Service audio description track. Despite being branded as a "Netflix Original", Daredevil was licensed to Netflix from Disney.

Daredevil was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, along with the other Marvel Netflix series, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. Disney opted not to have Netflix pay a large licensing fee to retain the distribution rights for the series, and instead announced that all the series would be made available on Disney+ on March 16 in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand, and in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022. In the United States, revised parental controls were introduced to the service to allow the more mature content of the series to be added, similarly to the controls that already exist for other regions that have the Star content hub.

Home media
Table info: Season, DVD release dates, Blu-ray release da... ▼
Season	DVD release dates	Blu-ray release dates
Region 1	Region 2	Region 4	Region A	Region B
1	—	October 3, 2016	December 7, 2016	November 8, 2016	October 3, 2016
2	August 22, 2017	May 15, 2017	June 14, 2017	August 22, 2017	May 15, 2017
3	—	—	—	—	—
Close ▲
Reception
Audience viewership
As Netflix does not reveal subscriber viewership numbers for any of their original series, Karim Zreik, senior vice president of original programming at Marvel Television, provided some viewership demographics for Daredevil in August 2017, noting that the series has attracted a large number of male viewers. Also in the month, Netflix released viewing patterns for the Marvel Netflix series. The data, which came from Netflix's "1,300 'taste communities' around the world, where subscribers are grouped based on what they watch", showed that viewers would not watch the series in chronological order by release, rather starting with Jessica Jones, then Daredevil, Luke Cage and finally Iron Fist. Todd Yellin, Netflix's vice president of product innovation, noted that audiences watch the series "in order of how they're interested in them and how they learn about them." Netflix's data also showed that a viewer watching Daredevil would most often then move on to Jessica Jones, and vice versa, while other series "with antiheroes and themes of moral ambiguity" such as Bloodline, Breaking Bad, Dexter and House of Cards led viewers to starting Daredevil. In October 2018, Crimson Hexagon, a consumer insights company, released data that examined the "social-media buzz" for the series to try to correlate it with potential viewership. The data showed that when the first season premiered in April 2015, the season had nearly 275,000 Twitter and Instagram posts regarding it. For when the second season was released in March 2016, the posts had declined to just over 200,000, and for the third season, looking at data gathered halfway through October 2018, the posts had declined to 75,000.

The series entered Nielsen Media Research's streaming list, which measures the number of minutes watched by United States audiences on television sets, as the eighth-most-watched original series across streaming services for the week of December 20–26, 2021, with 195 million minutes viewed. Daredevil's appearance on the list was believed to be from viewers returning to the series following Cox's appearance in Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021) and D'Onofrio's appearance in Hawkeye (2021).

Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
The review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 99% approval rating for the first season, based on 72 reviews, with an average rating of 8.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "With tight adherence to its source material's history, high production quality, and a no-nonsense dramatic flair, Daredevil excels as an effective superhero origin story, a gritty procedural, and an exciting action adventure." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 75 out of 100, based on 22 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

The second season has an 81% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 57 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Bolstered by some impressive action, Daredevil keeps its footing in season two, even if its new adversaries can't quite fill the void left by Wilson Fisk." On Metacritic, it has a score of 68 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

The third season has a 97% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 65 reviews, with an average rating of 8.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "The Man with No Fear returns to top form with a third season that begins tediously slow but gradually generates comic book thrills, immeasurably helped by the welcome return of Vincent D'Onofrio's menacing Kingpin." On Metacritic, it has a score of 71 out of 100, based on 6 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Accolades
In December 2015, IGN named Daredevil the second best Netflix original programming series released to date.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2015	Camerimage	Best Cinematography – Pilot	"Into the Ring"	Nominated
EWwy Awards	Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series	Vincent D'Onofrio	Nominated
Helen Keller Achievement Award	Honoree	Charlie Cox	Won
Online Film & Television Association Award	Best New Titles Sequence	Daredevil	Won
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Main Title Design	Daredevil	Nominated
Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series	"Speak of the Devil"	Nominated
Outstanding Special and Visual Effects in a Supporting Role	"Speak of the Devil"	Nominated
Screen Actors Guild Awards	Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
2016	Empire Awards	Best TV Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Golden Reel Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Dialogue and ADR for Episodic Short Form Broadcast Media	Daredevil	Nominated
Saturn Awards	Best Supporting Actor on Television	Scott Glenn	Nominated
Best New Media Television Series	Daredevil	Won
Best Guest Starring Role on Television	Vincent D'Onofrio	Nominated
Best Actor on Television	Charlie Cox	Nominated
SXSW Film Festival	Excellence in Title Design	Daredevil	Nominated
Visual Effects Society Awards	Outstanding Supporting Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	"Speak of the Devil"	Nominated
Got Your 6	6 Certified – for "a representative and balanced depiction of veterans"	"Semper Fidelis"	Won
Online Film & Television Association Award	Best Sound in a Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series	"New York's Finest"	Nominated
Outstanding Stunt Coordination for a Drama Series, Limited Series or Movie	Philip J. Silvera	Nominated
2017	Saturn Awards	Best Actor on Television	Charlie Cox	Nominated
Best New Media Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Screen Actors Guild Awards	Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
2019	Saturn Awards	Best Actor in a Streaming Television Series	Charlie Cox	Nominated
Best Streaming Superhero Series	Daredevil	Won
Best Supporting Actress in a Streaming Television Series	Deborah Ann Woll	Nominated
Screen Actors Guild Awards	Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Close ▲
Spin-off
Main article: The Punisher (TV series)
By January 2016, ahead of the debut of Bernthal as armed vigilante Frank Castle / Punisher in season two, Netflix was in "very early development" on a spin-off series titled The Punisher, and was looking for a showrunner. The series would be centered on Bernthal as Castle, and was described as a stand-alone project, outside of the series leading up to The Defenders. Loeb implied that Marvel Television had not instigated the development of the spin-off and were focusing on making "the best 13 episodes of Daredevil season two" at the time, but did say, "I'm never going to discourage a network from looking at one of our characters and encouraging us to do more [...] If we are lucky enough that through the writing, through the direction, through the actor that people want to see more of that person, terrific." In April 2016, Marvel and Netflix ordered The Punisher, confirmed Bernthal's involvement and named Steve Lightfoot as showrunner. The series was released in November 2017. Woll reprises her role as Karen Page in the series.

Other media
An update for the mobile fighting game Marvel Contest of Champions was released in November 2015, featuring a six-part story quest involving Daredevil and Jessica Jones along with a level based on Hell's Kitchen.

Cancellation and future
Main article: Daredevil: Born Again
Ahead of the release of season three, Deadline Hollywood noted the series was expected to be renewed for a fourth season since it was "widely watched and critically acclaimed". Oleson pitched what he wanted to do with a fourth season to Netflix in November 2018, and was hoping that this meeting would lead to an official renewal of the series. Despite the pitch, on November 29, 2018, Netflix canceled the series after three seasons. Netflix said the three seasons would remain on the service, while the character would "live on in future projects for Marvel". Deadline Hollywood noted, that "unlike Iron Fist or Luke Cage, the door seems to be wide open" for the series to continue elsewhere, potentially on Disney's streaming service, Disney+. However, The Hollywood Reporter felt this was unlikely, especially since, per the original deal between Marvel and Netflix for the series, the characters cannot appear in any non-Netflix series or films for at least two years following the cancellation of Daredevil, as reported by Variety. Kevin A. Mayer, chairman of Walt Disney Direct-to-Consumer and International, noted that, while it had not yet been discussed, it was a possibility that Disney+ could revive the series.

Cox was saddened by the cancellation, since it "felt like we had a lot of stories to tell", especially since he had been excited by what had been discussed for a potential fourth season. He added that many of the cast and crew "really expected to keep going" and that he was hopeful there would be an opportunity to portray the character again in some form. Amy Rutberg, who portrays Marci Stahl in the series, confirmed the two-year wait requirement and also said the decision to cancel the series came as a surprise to the executives at Marvel given the extensive work that had been done for a potential fourth season. She added that filming for the fourth season had been expected to begin around February 2019 and that many of the cast and crew felt the series would last for five seasons, with a new antagonist in the fourth before a final showdown between Daredevil and Fisk in the fifth. That same month, Hulu's senior vice president of originals Craig Erwich said that the streaming service was open to reviving the series, along with the other former Netflix series.

In June 2020, Cox was contacted by Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige about reprising his role in Marvel Studios' MCU productions, with Feige confirming in December 2021 that Cox would reprise the role for Marvel Studios, first doing so in the film Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021). Additionally, D'Onofrio first reprised his role as Kingpin in the Disney+ series Hawkeye (2021). At that time, Jessica Henwick, who portrayed Colleen Wing in the Marvel Netflix series, indicated that Cox had known about the opportunity to reprise the role in Marvel Studios productions years prior.

In March 2022, Production Weekly included a Daredevil reboot in their report of upcoming projects in development, with Feige and Chris Gary listed as producers. The series was confirmed to be in development for Disney+ in late May, with Matt Corman and Chris Ord attached as head writers and executive producers. The series, titled Daredevil: Born Again, was officially announced that July for an 18-episode first season, with Cox and D'Onofrio confirmed to return. Bernthal will also reprise his role as Frank Castle / Punisher in Born Again. It is scheduled to premiere on Disney+ in early 2024. Cox described Born Again as a "whole new thing" and not a fourth season of the Netflix series.

References
External links
Daredevil
More
Daredevil (season 1)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Gladiator (Melvin Potter)
Daredevil (Marvel Comics character)
Daredevil (TV series)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Daredevil (season 1)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The first season of the American streaming television series Daredevil, which is based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, follows the early days of Matt Murdock / Daredevil, a lawyer-by-day who fights crime at night, juxtaposed with the rise of crime lord Wilson Fisk. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films and other television series of the franchise. The season was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios, DeKnight Prods. and Goddard Textiles, with Steven S. DeKnight serving as showrunner, and series creator Drew Goddard acting as consultant.

Quick facts: Daredevil, Starring, Country of origin, No. o... ▼
Close ▲
Charlie Cox stars as Murdock, while Vincent D'Onofrio plays Fisk. They are joined by principal cast members Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson, Toby Leonard Moore, Vondie Curtis-Hall, Bob Gunton, Ayelet Zurer, and Rosario Dawson. Daredevil entered development in late 2013, with Goddard hired in December. DeKnight replaced him as showrunner and Cox was hired to star in May 2014. Filmed in New York City from July to December 2014, the season focuses on the darker, more mature elements of the source material. Stephanie Maslansky designed the costumes for the season, with the final red suit for Daredevil designed by Ryan Meinerding and the costume artists at Marvel Studios. The season features links and references to other MCU projects, including future Netflix series.

The first two episodes of the season premiered in Los Angeles on April 2, 2015, with the full season of 13 episodes released on Netflix on April 10 to an estimated high viewership. Critics praised the performances, particularly D'Onofrio's, and the darker tone and action sequences of the series compared to other properties set in the MCU. However, some of the pacing during the season and the final red Daredevil suit received criticism. The first season received three nominations at 67th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards, for Outstanding Special Visual Effects from Shade VFX, Outstanding Sound Editing for a One-Hour Series, and for Outstanding Main Title Design. The series was renewed for a second season on April 21, 2015.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"Into the Ring"	Phil Abraham	Drew Goddard	April10,2015
Crime cartels, including the Russian mafia, Yakuza, and Chinese mob, have exploited Hell's Kitchen's circumstances since "the incident". Blinded as a boy in an accident that gave him heightened senses, Matt Murdock starts fighting this rising criminal element by night as a costumed vigilante while opening a law firm with his friend, Foggy Nelson. Their first client is Karen Page, a secretary for construction company Union Allied, who has been framed for the murder of her co-worker, Daniel Fisher, after accidentally uncovering a money laundering scheme. Murdock stops Karen from being prosecuted and protects her from a professional hitman before exposing the scandal through Ben Urich at The New York Bulletin. Grateful for their help, Page offers to work for Murdock and Nelson. James Wesley covers up the involvement of his employer in the scandal, and orders Anatoly and Vladimir Ranskahov, the Russians' leaders, to handle Murdock ("the man in black"): they kidnap a young boy to lure him into a trap.
2	2	"Cut Man"	Phil Abraham	Drew Goddard	April10,2015
When Murdock was a boy, his father was murdered by the Hell's Kitchen Irish Mob for winning a match he was told to throw. Now, after failing to rescue the kidnapped boy, a severely injured Murdock is found in a dumpster by nurse Claire Temple. Nelson meanwhile attempts to comfort Page following her recent traumatic experiences. Temple takes Murdock to her apartment, tends to his wounds, and removes his mask, discovering his blindness. He refuses to reveal his name, but does reveal his heightened senses when they alert him to a Russian who is searching the apartment building, giving Temple time to hide Murdock and convince the man that she knows nothing. Murdock realizes that the man did not believe her, and overpowers him, taking him to the roof. Murdock and Temple torture him into revealing the boy's location, before Murdock pushes him off the roof and into the same dumpster; Murdock says he will survive. Murdock enters the building where they are keeping the boy, defeats the guards, and rescues the boy.
3	3	"Rabbit in a Snowstorm"	Adam Kane	Marco Ramirez	April10,2015
Wesley, having become aware of Nelson and Murdock because of their involvement with Page during the Union Allied scandal, hires them to defend John Healy, an assassin. Though Nelson wishes not to get involved with an obvious criminal element, Murdock wishes to use the case to discover who Wesley's employer is, and so accepts Wesley's offer, which includes a substantial sum to ensure their silence. Page receives a similar offer from Union Allied, who do not want her to talk to anyone else about the scandal, and threaten to sue her for leaking company secrets to the press if she does not agree. Despite this, Page goes to Urich, whose editor Mitchell Ellison is forcing him to write superfluous stories rather than the major crime breaks of his youth, and offers to tell him more about the Union Allied scandal. After successfully defending Healy, Murdock confronts him in costume and forces him to reveal Wesley's employer, Wilson Fisk. Healy commits suicide rather than be confronted by the consequences of revealing Fisk's identity.
4	4	"In the Blood"	Ken Girotti	Joe Pokaski	April10,2015
Murdock is unable to find any record of Fisk, and so continues to interrogate criminals, searching for answers. Wesley informs the Ranskahovs of an offer Fisk has made to help with their operations, given their recent failures. Angered at this apparent slight, they attempt to stop the man in black once and for all by visiting in hospital the Russian whom Murdock threw from the roof. After the Russian tells them of Temple, they send men to kidnap her, but she manages to call Murdock in time to alert him of her kidnapping. The Russians attempt to torture Murdock's name out of Temple, but Murdock arrives and defeats the gangsters. Seeing the aftermath of this, the Ranskahovs decide to agree to Fisk's offer, with Anatoly going to tell Fisk personally, by barging into the restaurant where Fisk is having dinner with an art gallery curator named Vanessa Marianna. Fisk takes a confused Marianna home, and angered at this intrusion and embarrassment, Fisk decapitates Anatoly and orders Wesley to send the body to Vladimir.
5	5	"World on Fire"	Farren Blackburn	Luke Kalteux	April10,2015
Fisk explains the situation to his allies, including Chinese leader Madame Gao, of whom he asks a special favor. Elena Cardenas, a renter of powerful businessman Armand Tulley, comes to Nelson and Murdock after Tulley, who wants to convert her apartment building, sends men to wreck her home. Nelson goes to Tulley's lawyers at Landman and Zack (where he and Murdock once interned), represented by Marci Stahl, Nelson's ex-girlfriend. She explains that Cardenas and her neighbors can either take a large settlement or be evicted. While looking for complaints against Tulley at the police station, Murdock realizes Detectives Carl Hoffman and Christian Blake are corrupt when he hears them kill a Russian. Murdock later incapacitates Blake and uses his cell phone to find Vladimir. Fisk pays Turk Barrett to reveal to Vladimir that Fisk killed Anatoly, and as they prepare for a war against Fisk, their forces are destroyed in a suicide attack by Gao's workers. Vladimir survives, but Murdock finds him, as they are surrounded by police.
6	6	"Condemned"	Guy Ferland	Joe Pokaski & Marco Ramirez	April10,2015
Murdock takes out the police when they try to kill Vladimir on Fisk's orders, and takes Vladimir to an abandoned warehouse, hoping for answers about Fisk, while Nelson and Cardenas are injured in the bombings. With Temple's help, Murdock cauterizes Vladimir's wounds, alerting a non-corrupt police officer to their presence. The officer calls in Murdock and Vladimir's location, and the warehouse is soon surrounded. Blake and Hoffman take control of the situation, and await Fisk's orders. Fisk talks to Murdock via police radio, telling him of his admiration for what Murdock is trying to do, even though it clashes with Fisk's own plans to save the city. Fisk then frames the vigilante by having a New York City Police Department Emergency Service Unit sniper fire on other officers from the roof of the warehouse, including Blake, as Urich and the media look on. Vladimir, in return for Murdock avenging Anatoly's death, gives him information on Leland Owlsley – the accountant for all of Fisk's operations – before giving his life so that Murdock can escape.
7	7	"Stick"	Brad Turner	Douglas Petrie	April10,2015
Murdock tracks down Owlsley, but is distracted by the arrival of an elderly man: Murdock's mentor, Stick, who taught him to master his abilities as a child, but abandoned him when Murdock developed an attachment to him. Now, he enlists Murdock's help in destroying Black Sky, a weapon that the Japanese, led by Nobu Yoshioka, are bringing to New York. Stick agrees to refrain from killing, but breaks his promise when he kills Black Sky, who is actually a young boy. Murdock fights Stick and wins, so Stick agrees to leave the city. Urich, having agreed to help Page expose the further scandal and corruption surrounding Hell's Kitchen and Union Allied, explains that they need proof before they can publish anything. While searching for a connection between Tulley's men and Union Allied, Page is confronted by them. Nelson helps her escape them, so she and Urich explain their investigation to him. Stick later converses with a heavily scarred man about Murdock's role in events to come.
8	8	"Shadows in the Glass"	Stephen Surjik	Steven S. DeKnight	April10,2015
Page and Nelson bring Murdock in on their plan, and he agrees as long as they stop putting themselves in harm's way, and use the legal system rather than underhanded tactics. Owlsley and Nobu, angry at being confronted by the vigilante and losing Black Sky, respectively, express their displeasure with Fisk, while he is also dealing with Blake, who wakes up in the hospital. Fisk convinces Hoffman to kill Blake before he can speak out against Fisk, but Hoffman is incapacitated by Murdock, who gets information on Fisk from Blake before he dies. Gao visits Fisk, warning him that he will have to get everything under control if he does not want to be side-stepped. An angry Fisk is later consoled by Vanessa, and he tells her of how, as a child, he murdered his father when he was beating Fisk's mother. She convinces him to stand up and go public with his intentions to save the city. This negates all of Murdock's information from Blake, which Urich was going to publish.
9	9	"Speak of the Devil"	Nelson McCormick	Christos Gage & Ruth Fletcher Gage	April10,2015
In the wake of Fisk's public revelation, Murdock, Page, Nelson, and Urich begin searching for something from Fisk's past that they can use against him. Murdock visits Vanessa at her art gallery, hoping to gain insight into Fisk by speaking with her, and encounters Fisk himself. Nobu demands a promised city block from Fisk, who agrees on the condition Nobu provide him with a "specialist" to deal with the vigilante. The block, which Fisk has bought from Tulley, is where Cardenas lives, and she is one of the few tenants who stands in the way of Fisk gifting it to Nobu. When Cardenas is killed by a junkie, Murdock realizes that Fisk is behind it, and tracks him to an abandoned warehouse, where he is confronted by the specialist: Nobu. Murdock eventually defeats Nobu, accidentally causing him to burn alive, but sustains serious injuries. Fisk then confronts Murdock, beating him nearly to death. Murdock barely escapes, only to collapse at his home in front of Nelson.
10	10	"Nelson v. Murdock"	Farren Blackburn	Luke Kalteux	April10,2015
After Temple tends to Murdock's wounds, Nelson confronts him about his "blindness" and vigilante activities. Murdock explains that after experiencing the twisted morals of Landman and Zack, Murdock took it upon himself to confront an abusive father with no legal evidence against him, but who Murdock had discovered through his heightened senses. Since then, he had been doing everything he could to make the city a better place whenever the law could not. Nelson, unable to look past Murdock's lies, leaves their firm. Urich, after the extension on his sick wife's hospital stay is denied and he is offered a better paying job as an editor rather than a reporter, decides to give up the investigation. Page, in an attempt to change his mind, takes him to a rest home she just discovered, where they meet Marlene Vistain, Fisk's mother, who tells them that Fisk killed his father. Fisk, meanwhile, is hosting a charity gala to publicly raise money for victims of the bombings. There, many of the guests, including Vanessa, are poisoned.
11	11	"The Path of the Righteous"	Nick Gomez	Steven S. DeKnight & Douglas Petrie	April10,2015
Still recovering from his injuries, Murdock says goodbye to Temple, who is leaving for a time. Before she goes, Temple suggests that he get better protection if he is going to continue his crusade. With the help of Barrett, Murdock finds Melvin Potter, a mentally unbalanced engineer who has been coerced into creating armored clothing for Fisk, and asks him to make a suit of body armor in exchange for stopping Fisk from hurting anyone else. Page wishes to reveal the story of how Vistain is alive, and says that Fisk killed his father, but Urich explains that it is unreliable, given her state of mind. While Fisk will not leave Marianna's side as she recovers in hospital, Wesley receives a phone call from Vistain and learns that Page and Urich visited her. He confronts Page and attempts to blackmail her into not exposing Fisk, threatening to hurt her friends. When Fisk calls Wesley to find out where he is, the ringing distracts him long enough for Page to take his gun, and kill him.
12	12	"The Ones We Leave Behind"	Euros Lyn	Douglas Petrie	April10,2015
Using information from Urich, Murdock finds the base of Gao's heroin operation and dismantles it, with Gao, who can hold her own against Murdock, escaping and deciding to return to her homeland to think about the future. Fisk's men find Wesley, and the grieving Fisk realizes that the last person he talked to was Vistain. Wanting to keep those he loves safe by sending them out of the country, Fisk is unable to convince Marianna to leave him, but does get Vistain away, with the sick Vistain unable to tell him what her call to Wesley was about. Nelson continues his work without Murdock, and takes what they know to Stahl. Page, struggling to get over killing Wesley, convinces Urich to write the story, but it is rejected by Ellison. When Urich accuses Ellison of being paid off by Fisk, he gets fired. Urich decides to start his own blog to get Fisk's story out there, but Fisk's real informant in the New York Bulletin tells him that Urich visited Vistain, angering him to the point that he breaks into Urich's apartment and kills him.
13	13	"Daredevil"	Steven S. DeKnight	Steven S. DeKnight	April10,2015
Murdock and Page attend Urich's funeral, while Fisk learns that Owlsley and Gao conspired to poison Marianna, whom they deemed a distraction, and that Owlsley has been hiding Hoffman as an insurance policy. When Owlsley tries to blackmail him, an infuriated Fisk kills Owlsley by throwing him into an open elevator shaft. Murdock and Nelson reconcile their differences, and begin building their case against Fisk. As the vigilante, Murdock finds Hoffman with information from Stahl and convinces him to testify against Fisk. Acting on this testimony, federal agents arrest Fisk and his co-conspirators, but Fisk's mercenaries and corrupt law enforcement officers manage to help free him from federal custody. Before he can flee the city, Murdock ambushes him, wearing the new armor formed for him by Potter. After a brutal fight, Murdock defeats Fisk and leaves him to the police. With Fisk arrested, Marianna leaves the city. Murdock, Page, and Nelson celebrate their success and resume their work. The vigilante is named "Daredevil" by the media.
Close ▲
Production
Development
In October 2013, Marvel and Disney announced that Marvel Television and ABC Studios would provide Netflix with live action series centered around Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist, and Luke Cage, leading up to a miniseries based on the Defenders. Drew Goddard was hired to serve as executive producer and showrunner for Daredevil, however, in May 2014 it was announced that Goddard had stepped down as showrunner in order to focus on directing a feature film based on Marvel's Sinister Six for Sony Pictures Entertainment. He was succeeded by Steven S. DeKnight. Goddard, who wrote the first two episodes, remained with the show as a consultant and executive producer. It was also revealed that the series would be titled Marvel's Daredevil. The first season consists of 13 hour-long episodes, and DeKnight, Goddard, Jeph Loeb, Jim Chory, Dan Buckley, Joe Quesada, Stan Lee, Alan Fine, Cindy Holland, Kris Henigman, Allie Goss, and Peter Friedlander serve as executive producers.

Writing
The season does not directly adapt any one storyline from the comics, with DeKnight feeling that it was more important to focus on "nailing the spirit of the comics". Nonetheless, notable comics stories whose elements were adapted into the season include Frank Miller and John Romita Jr.'s 1993 miniseries Daredevil: The Man Without Fear, a retelling of the character's origin. DeKnight stated that Netflix's support of "the creatives" coupled with Marvel's restrictions on their properties led to him pushing the source material as far as he could while remaining respectful of the characters and their history, and being surprised at "how willing everyone is to take a really fresh look and really push what we're doing." Vincent D'Onofrio likened the Netflix production more to a "13-hour film" than to a television series, noting that the format allowed for the time needed to tell the story and "be much more specific". Deborah Ann Woll explained that what she saw as one of the most important themes in the series was normal people having an impact in "seemingly insurmountable circumstances", with the focus not being on Daredevil's abilities or the characters' qualifications, but on their willingness to help people.

Though the season was much more violent than previous Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) works, DeKnight felt that sexual violence would be "too far", saying that "Daredevil wasn't asking for a lot of sexual situations, especially since Matt Murdock is not really in the position to get into a relationship, and it just didn't fit the story for that season. I think that'll change moving forward, but I never pushed any kind of sexual agenda on the show. I think once Daredevil was a hit and people were really responding positively, you can see the progression into more of an adult world in Jessica Jones."

Speaking about the way the season reveals the name Daredevil, DeKnight explained that several options had been brought up, such as "one of the versions in the comics where when he was a kid people used to taunt him with the name Daredevil", which did not fit in the world of the series, or having Ben Urich give the character the name, but the timing for that did not work due to Urich's death before the final Daredevil suit was introduced. It was decided that instead of having the name Daredevil said onscreen, it would be easier to introduce it through the media as a newspaper headline. On why this was not done for Wilson Fisk as Kingpin, DeKnight stated that he felt it would "get a little bit silly....[if] we went, 'Oh they called him Daredevil! Oh they called him Kingpin!'", and was unable to come up with another natural way for the name Kingpin to come up, so it was decided to leave that for a later time.

Casting
The main cast for the season includes Charlie Cox as Matt Murdock / Daredevil, Deborah Ann Woll as Karen Page, Elden Henson as Franklin "Foggy" Nelson, Toby Leonard Moore as James Wesley, Vondie Curtis-Hall as Ben Urich, Bob Gunton as Leland Owlsley, Ayelet Zurer as Vanessa Marianna, Rosario Dawson as Claire Temple, and Vincent D'Onofrio as Wilson Fisk.

In July 2014, Peter Shinkoda was reported to have a recurring role in the season, portraying Hashiro. In March 2015, this character was revealed to actually be Nobu Yoshioka, while recurring opponents for Daredevil – Madame Gao, Vladimir Ranskahov, and Turk Barrett – were also announced, portrayed by Wai Ching Ho, Nikolai Nikolaeff, and Rob Morgan. Additionally, the following also recur throughout the season: Geoffrey Cantor as Mitchell Ellison; Judith Delgado as Elena Cardenas; Daryl Edwards as Carl Hoffman; Royce Johnson as Brett Mahoney; Adriane Lenox as Doris Urich; Peter McRobbie as Father Paul Lantom; Amy Rutberg as Marci Stahl; Chris Tardio as Christian Blake; Susan Varon as Josie; and Tom Walker as Francis.

Design
The two costumes worn by Cox in the season: first, his black "vigilante outfit";[31] second, his red "classic suit".[32]
The two costumes worn by Cox in the season: first, his black "vigilante outfit"; second, his red "classic suit".
Costume designer Stephanie Maslansky read the first two episodes' scripts and some outlines of future scripts, and developed a "solid understanding" of the character arcs and overall story to begin the advanced planning needed for costume design. She also asked questions to prepare for character's stunt requirements and the building or retro-fitting of more complex costumes.

Murdock begins the season wearing a black costume (called the "vigilante outfit" by production), inspired by the one worn by the character in Frank Miller's Daredevil: The Man Without Fear, rather than the more traditional red, horned suit. This was done to highlight the formation of Matt Murdock as Daredevil, with the costume evolving over time as the character develops. Marvel Comics' Chief Creative Officer Quesada conceptualized the look based on DeKnight's specifications. On the design process, DeKnight revealed that "we tried practically everything, design-wise. We experimented with a lot of different head pieces. One version was a ski mask with the eyes sewn shut. We tried everything until we found something that just felt right." DeKnight and Quesada explained that the idea was for Murdock to start out with a homemade outfit that fits more in the "real-world" of the series, and to then evolve it into the classic Daredevil suit. Maslansky noted that they wanted the outfit to "look like something that Matt Murdock could put together himself, that he could either order off the Internet or shop around town. [...] we wound up with pretty practical choices for him. His shirts are compression shirts and his pants wound up being from an army/navy store." Concerning the black mask, Maslansky noted that a balance between aesthetic and safety was required, and that it was made of layers of cotton mesh that "really conform to his head" but also allowed Cox to see through the mask.

On the red suit, Maslansky said, "We wanted something that looked militaristic and functional, but also dramatic and sexy" adding that it was "tricky" making it practical. To begin the process of creating the suit, Quesada contacted Ryan Meinerding and the costume artists and design team at Marvel Studios, who all contributed design ideas, with one of Meinerding's ultimately being picked. Quesada, who previously worked as an artist on Daredevil comics, gave several suggestions, including the incorporation of some of how New York was created into the suit, which led to the use of rivets and "architectural" shapes. The suit is intended to look like a Kevlar vest, and the black sections are an homage to comic panels where the artists highlighted certain areas with red, with "deeper portions" in shadow. On the mask, Meinerding noted the difficulty in designing the entire top half of a face that is intended to match the bottom half of an actor's face, "because half of his face has to be covered and has its own expression and the actor's face is going to be doing something else". For the billy clubs used by Daredevil in the series, which were designed by Andy Park, discussions were had about having them holstered on the right leg, given that both Cox and his stunt double Chris Brewster are right handed, but it was ultimately decided to have the holster on the left hand side as it is in the "classic profile" of the comics. DeKnight explained that Murdock's Daredevil suit does not have the "DD" emblem on the chest as seen in the comics, because Murdock receives his moniker only after the suit is introduced. He also felt that the emblem was "one of the more problematic emblems in superhero-dom", and that Daredevil's suit in the comics was "very difficult to translate to screen, especially in this world that is grounded and gritty".

Many of the male characters in the series are often seen wearing suits, which Maslansky was comfortable with after working as the costume designer on White Collar. Murdock's suits are differentiated more by texture than color, with a limited palette, given that the character cannot see what color his clothing is. Cox's size changed throughout the series as he continued to work out. For Murdock's sunglasses, Maslansky worked with series prop master Michael Jortner to make something that fit into the modern world, but paid homage to "what was familiar to fans". Close to 100 different versions of the prop were created for Cox to try. For the women of the series, Maslansky looked to their backstories in the show, with Page having dreams and fantasies of a life in New York along the lines of Katharine Hepburn and Lauren Bacall, and dressing according to those thoughts ("retro, slim skirts, tighter fitting tops and slim dresses"), while Marianna coming into the series as a mysterious yet glamorous femme fatale, dressing in high-end, couture clothing; "she needed to appeal to [Fisk]. He wouldn't go for just any chick in a pair of old jeans and a t-shirt."

Filming
In February 2014, Marvel announced that Daredevil would be filmed in New York City. In April 2014, Quesada reiterated this, stating that the show would be filming in areas of Brooklyn and Long Island City that still look like the old Hell's Kitchen, in addition to sound stage work. Loeb said that Daredevil would begin filming in July 2014, and DeKnight confirmed that filming had started that month. It filmed under the working title Bluff, on a $56 million budget. The production received $14.3 million under the New York Film & TV Tax Credit Program. Production concluded on December 21, 2014. Other filming locations in New York City included the Williamsburg, Greenpoint and Bushwick neighborhoods in Brooklyn; Abe Lebewohl Park in the East Village; Whitestone Lanes bowling alley in Flushing, Queens; the New York State Supreme Court Building, with the interior for court scenes filmed on a set; Brooklyn Borough Hall; the Rockefeller Center rooftop gardens; Brooklyn College for Murdock and Nelson's flashback to their time in college; the Chelsea neighborhood in Manhattan; and the Honeywell Bridge in Long Island City.

"Cut Man" ends with a long action sequence filmed in a single take. DeKnight called it the "most complicated action scene" in the series, due to the technical difficulty in filming it, and credited Goddard, episodic director Phil Abraham, stunt coordinator Philip J Silvera, and series cinematographer Matt Lloyd with realizing it. He also named The Raid films as inspiration for the sequence. There were only a few days to plan and set up the fight, as opposed to a film which would allow "at least a couple of weeks", and it took 7 or 8 takes to get the shot right. Silvera explained that the scene was always scripted to be a one-shot, and that he had intended to work around it with wipes, but Abraham challenged the team to do it all for real, which allowed the fight to feel more grounded by having them "slow down the fight, and just have this raw, animalistic feeling happening." The final shot does include some "Texas Switches" between actors and stunt doubles, but was ultimately filmed with no cuts.

Talking about the scene where Fisk beheads Anatoly Ranskahov with a car door in "In the Blood", DeKnight noted that series like Spartacus and The Walking Dead would have shown the head being crushed, which he felt was "the right choice" for them, but for Daredevil "we did very much a Psycho thing, we saw the aftereffects of it, but you never saw the car door crushing his head. [...] Sound effects, absolutely. It's a very disturbing scene without crossing that line into a horror movie kind of deal."

Visual effects
Visual effects for the series were completed by the New York studio Shade VFX; Daredevil featured over 1000 visual effect shots. Executive visual effects supervisor Bryan Goswin explained that the company's work included the creation of digital doubles when stunts were not safe for actors or stunt doubles, as well as blood-hits and wounds, with "a lot of support to the idea of the violence and gore that happens in Daredevil" given to differentiate the series from other Marvel projects, and to try to set the series in a "more realistic and dark place, the real streets of New York."

One shot created by Shade VFX is when the audience sees Matt Murdock's "vision" – the way that he "sees" using his other heightened senses. On why this was only used once in the season, DeKnight explained that it had in fact been budgeted to appear several more times, with the effect actually completed at least twice more for the season. It was removed for several reasons, including to avoid taking away the specialty of it, and to maintain the crime drama tone of the series. One instance where it would have been used again was in "Stick", where the audience would have seen how Murdock saw Stick as he threw keys at him, and then when he is older and Stick throws fighting sticks at him and his senses are more refined. In that case, the effect was not finished on time. Another instance was in "The Ones We Leave Behind" when Murdock comes across a Chinese worker and realizes that he has been blinded. The final use of the effect was going to be in "Daredevil" when the camera pushes in on Page's reaction Murdock telling her that they can work together. Here, the effect was hiding all of the nuances in her expression, so it was decided that it would be better to remove it.

Music
Composer John Paesano was brought on "a couple of weeks in to post-production", and scored an episode every four to five days. Paesano estimated that each episode has around 25–30 minutes of music in it. In approaching the series' score, Paesano looked to DeKnight, who "had a very clear vision of what he wanted [...] music you could feel and not necessarily hear." The result was a more minimalist score than typical "superhero" music, although the music starts to "change color" and move closer to that of the MCU when the classic red costume is introduced. Most of the score was produced electronically, though live elements, such as a cello, were used where possible. Rather than "keep the drive and the energy up" with drums, Paesano elected to use a low pulsing heartbeat that was inline with the series' minimalist approach, and tied into the fact that Daredevil can hear people's heartbeats in the show. A soundtrack album for the season was released digitally by Hollywood Records on April 28, 2015.

All music composed by John Paesano, unless otherwise noted.

Daredevil (Original Soundtrack Album)
No.	Title	Music	Length
1.	"Main Title"	John Paesano & Braden Kimball	1:04
2.	"Fogwell's Gym"		3:53
3.	"Battlin' Jack Murdock"		3:05
4.	"Hallway Fight"		4:26
5.	"Union Allied"		1:51
6.	"Passenger Side"		2:57
7.	"A World on Fire"		1:26
8.	"Ben Urich"		3:09
9.	"Stick"		2:11
10.	"Wilson Fisk"		4:38
11.	"Worthy Opponents"		2:28
12.	"Avocados at Law"		1:42
13.	"Man of Ill Intent"		3:45
14.	"The Suit"		5:43
15.	"Daredevil"		1:41
Total length:	41:45
Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
In February 2015, Emma Fleisher of Marvel Television stated that Daredevil takes place in the aftermath of The Avengers (2012), but would not "explicitly [be] in that Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. world. We're in our own corner [of the MCU]. So the aliens came down and ruined the city, and this is the story of Hell's Kitchen's rebuild." Connections to other MCU properties include the character of Carl "Crusher" Creel, who appears in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. portrayed by Brian Patrick Wade, and is mentioned as having fought Jack Murdock in the latter's final boxing match; St. Agnes Orphanage, where both Matt Murdock and Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Skye are raised; the insignia on Madame Gao's heroin, which is a connection to the Iron Fist antagonist Steel Serpent; and mentions of Roxxon Oil, a company featured throughout the MCU.

The final scene of "Stick", featuring a conversation between Stick and Stone, was meant to hint at further ties between the series and other areas of the MCU in the same way as Marvel's film post-credits scenes, though it could not actually go after the episode's credits due to the way that Netflix begins the next episode during the credits of the current one. There were discussions about having another such "coda" at the end of the season finale, one which would have featured Leland Owlsley attempting to escape New York, only to be killed by the Punisher in a surprise introduction. The scene would not have shown the actor's face, but would have included the character's iconic skull insignia. The idea was dropped, again because of Netflix's playing system, and Owlsley was ultimately killed by Fisk in the episode, with the introduction of the Punisher saved for the series' second season.

Marketing
At the October 2014 New York Comic Con, footage from the series was shown. In January 2015, a motion film poster was released to coincide with the revealing of the streaming date for the first season. The following month, on February 4, a teaser trailer was released. Merrill Barr of Forbes noted the dark tone of the trailer in a similar vein to DC Comics' Arrow and different from Marvel's ABC television series, but questioned the timing of the trailer debut after Super Bowl XLIX, especially as the company did not air trailers during the event for Avengers: Age of Ultron or Ant-Man and could have benefited from introducing "its latest and riskiest show" to general audiences through it. In March 2015, an additional motion poster was released, which featured all major characters and Avengers Tower in the background of the poster, as well as the possible reveal of Murdock's red suit in his reflection. In the lead up to the first-season premiere, a street marketing campaign appeared across the world in 12 cities with various artists creating murals. On April 2, 2015, the series had its premiere at the Regal Premiere House at L.A. Live where the first two episodes were previewed.

Release
Streaming
The first season of Daredevil was released on April 10, 2015, on the streaming service Netflix, in all territories where it is available, in Ultra HD 4K. On April 14, 2015, Daredevil was the first Netflix series to receive its Descriptive Video Service audio description track, "a narration track that describes what is happening on-screen, including physical actions, facial expressions, costumes, settings and scene changes." By April 16, episodes for the series had been pirated by 2.1 million individual users worldwide, according to Excipio, a piracy tracking firm, surpassed in that timeframe only by Game of Thrones. The biggest countries for piracy were Brazil (190,274 torrent downloaders), India (149,316), the US (144,351), the UK (119,891), France (105,473) and Australia (101,025). Except for India, Netflix was available in each of those countries at the time. The season was enhanced to be available in high-dynamic-range video after its initial release by post-production vendor Deluxe.

The season, along with the additional Daredevil seasons and the other Marvel Netflix series, was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. The season became available on Disney+ in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand on March 16, ahead of its debut in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022.

Home media
The season was released on DVD in Region 2 and Blu-ray in Region B on October 3, 2016, in Region 1 and Region A on November 8, 2016, and in Region 4 on December 7, 2016.

Reception
Audience viewership
As Netflix does not reveal subscriber viewership numbers for any of their original series, Luth Research compiled data for the season, based on a sample of 2,500 Netflix subscribers watching via computers, tablets or smartphones (Luth Research does not track Netflix viewing on televisions, whether Internet-connected sets or those linked to streaming-media players or gaming consoles). According to Luth, an estimated 10.7% of subscribers (approximately 4.4 million) watched at least one episode of Daredevil in its first 11 days on Netflix, with 2.3% (940,000) watching on the first day. In a separate study, Netflix determined that the fifth episode of the season was the one to "hook" viewers, "to the point where they [continued on to watch] the entire first season."

Critical response
Vincent D'Onofrio's performance as Wilson Fisk was one of the highlights of the series for critics.[73][74][75]
Vincent D'Onofrio's performance as Wilson Fisk was one of the highlights of the series for critics.
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 99% approval rating with an average rating of 8.1/10 based on 72 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "With tight adherence to its source material's history, high production quality, and a no-nonsense dramatic flair, Daredevil excels as an effective superhero origin story, a gritty procedural, and an exciting action adventure." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 75 out of 100, based on 22 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

In reviews for the first five episodes of the series, Brian Lowry of Variety felt that "Compared to Marvel's experience with Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. for ABC, operating in Netflix's pay-to-view world is clearly liberating" in terms of what can be done and shown. Matt Patches of Esquire added, "The show's exterior recasts the high fructose, splash page aesthetic of Iron Man, Thor, Captain America with neo-noir attitude. Goddard and DeKnight drench Daredevil in shadows and blood." He compared Daredevil to "a TV spinoff" of Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight trilogy, and praised Cox and D'Onofrio's portrayals, while criticizing a subplot involving Nelson and Page and noting that the slow pacing of Daredevil, in which story may be stretched out more than needs be, could be a problem for binge-watchers. Victoria McNally of MTV felt the early episodes' fight sequences were "filmed beautifully" and enjoyed that they featured little CGI, while also calling Henson "perfectly cast and endlessly amusing" as Nelson.

Eric Eisenberg of CinemaBlend also had positive thoughts on the initial episodes, saying, "It's smart, entertaining, and has moments so shocking that you'll have to repress screams. Suffice it to say, Marvel and Netflix have another big winner on their respective plates," while also praising the acting. Speaking of the first two episodes, Mark Hughes of Forbes added additional praise, saying, "Quite simply, in Daredevil Marvel delivers one of the greatest live-action superhero origin stories ever made. It is in the same top-tier category of true superhero origin films along with Batman Begins, Iron Man, and Superman: The Movie". Hughes stated that if the first two episodes were released in theaters with only minor tweaks, they "would've been hailed as one of Marvel's best films to date". Mike Hale at The New York Times was less positive about the series, calling it ordinary, but admitting having high expectations due to his love for the comics, and admiring the care and seriousness with which the series was made. He called the series pace "leisurely", but "a pleasant change from the norm", and called Cox's performance "divided", praising him as Murdock and criticizing him as Daredevil. Hale was positive about the cast overall, and ultimately surmised that after seeing the first five episodes, Daredevil is "eminently watchable", but not the Daredevil he remembered from the comics.

After reviewing each of the individual episodes, IGN reviewer Matt Fowler gave the entire first season a score of 9 out of 10, indicating an "Amazing" season, saying that though it may have "spun a few wheels" while building up to its endgame, the series was "a thrilling, ultra-satisfying take on Daredevil's material and lore. One that, like Favreau's first Iron Man film, helped breathe new life and fandom into a somewhat B-tier Marvel character." He particularly praised D'Onofrio's performance, the "edgy" fight sequences, the fact that the hero himself got "beat on – a lot", and the unique dark take on the MCU. Liz Shannon Miller, reviewing the season for IndieWire, graded it a "B+", and though feeling that it did not quite live up to DeKnight's admitted influence, The Wire, praised the series, noting its characters and development, and the performances of the entire cast, especially those of D'Onofrio, Curtis-Hall, and Cox. She was positive about the level of violence the series depicted, and all of its "brutal" and "beautiful" fight sequences, as well as the way that the series explores the consequences for average people of events from the films, while committing to building its own universe within the already established MCU. Alan Sepinwall of HitFix also praised the cast and characters, particularly D'Onofrio, and felt that series benefited from having a much narrower focus than the Marvel films or other series. He did wish that Murdock's "world on fire"-sight was used more often, and felt that the classic Daredevil costume, which "may not translate well to live-action", could use "some tweaks".

Accolades
Cox was honored at the American Foundation for the Blind's 19th Annual Helen Keller Achievement Awards, for those "that have demonstrated outstanding achievement in improving quality of life for people with vision loss". The series' main title sequence, created initially for this season, won the Online Film & Television Association's award for the Best New Titles Sequence, and was nominated for the Creative Arts Emmy Award for Outstanding Main Title Design, which went to Manhattan.

The season was included on multiple Best and Top TV shows of 2015 lists, ranking on People's (1st, along with Jessica Jones), Business Insider's (3rd), TV Guide and Digital Spy's (7th), and Slate Magazine's (23rd). It also was included on Vanity Fair' Best New TV Shows of 2015 list. Daredevil's first season was the seventh trending television show search on Google for 2015.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2015	Camerimage	Best Cinematography – Pilot	"Into the Ring"	Nominated
EWwy Awards	Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series	Vincent D'Onofrio	Nominated
Helen Keller Achievement Award	Honoree	Charlie Cox	Won
Online Film & Television Association Award	Best New Titles Sequence	Daredevil	Won
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Main Title Design	Daredevil	Nominated
Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series	"Speak of the Devil"	Nominated
Outstanding Special and Visual Effects in a Supporting Role	Nominated
Screen Actors Guild Awards	Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
2016	Empire Awards	Best TV Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Golden Reel Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Dialogue and ADR for Episodic Short Form Broadcast Media	Daredevil	Nominated
Saturn Awards	Best Supporting Actor on Television	Vincent D'Onofrio	Nominated
Best Guest Starring Role on Television	Scott Glenn	Nominated
Best Actor on Television	Charlie Cox	Nominated
Best New Media Television Series	Daredevil	Won
SXSW Film Festival	Excellence in Title Design	Daredevil	Nominated
Visual Effects Society Awards	Outstanding Supporting Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	"Speak of the Devil"	Nominated
Close ▲
Notes
References
External links
Daredevil
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Daredevil
Daredevil (season 2)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Elektra (character)
Karen Page
Stick (comics)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Daredevil (season 2)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The second season of the American streaming television series Daredevil, which is based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, follows Matt Murdock / Daredevil, a blind lawyer-by-day who fights crime at night, crossing paths with the deadly Frank Castle / Punisher along with the return of an old girlfriend—Elektra Natchios. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films and other television series of the franchise. The season is produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios, with Doug Petrie and Marco Ramirez serving as showrunners, and series creator Drew Goddard acting as consultant.

Quick facts: Daredevil, Starring, Country of origin, No. o... ▼
Close ▲
Charlie Cox stars as Murdock, while Jon Bernthal and Élodie Yung are introduced as Castle and Natchios, respectively. Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson, Rosario Dawson, and Vincent D'Onofrio also return from the first season, with Stephen Rider joining them. The season was ordered in April 2015 after the successful release of the first, with Petrie and Ramirez replacing the season one showrunner Steven S. DeKnight. Production on the season began in July 2015 and continued through December, with the season focusing on the nature of heroism through comparison of Murdock to Castle and Natchios, and showing how the latter two affect Murdock's life.

The first two episodes of the season premiered in Paris on March 7, 2016, with the full season of 13 episodes released on Netflix on March 18. Critics praised the introduction of Castle and Natchios, as well as Bernthal's performance in particular, the season's action, and storylines. However, many missed the presence of Vondie Curtis-Hall's Ben Urich from season one, and D'Onofrio's Wilson Fisk during the first half of season two. The series was renewed for a third season in July 2016.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
14	1	"Bang"	Phil Abraham	Douglas Petrie & Marco Ramirez	March18,2016
Following the downfall of Wilson Fisk and the Russian mafia, and the disappearance of the Chinese and Yakuza, various gangs attempt to take control of Hell's Kitchen, including the Irish Mob and Cartels. When a group of Irish are gunned down by an apparent "army", the sole survivor, Elliot "Grotto" Grote, seeks out the firm of Nelson and Murdock for protection. Karen Page, Nelson and Murdock's assistant—who is struggling to manage their financial troubles given that the firm's clientele often cannot afford legal fees—takes the wounded Grotto to the hospital, while Franklin "Foggy" Nelson learns from the Dogs of Hell biker gang that a group of their own was murdered by the same "army" as the Irish. Matt Murdock, as his secret vigilante persona Daredevil, investigates the cartels, who he learns had all of their high-power weapons stolen by a single man. At the hospital, Grotto and Page are attacked by this man and barely escape alive. Daredevil confronts the new vigilante in the rooftops near the hospital, and is shot in the head at point blank range.
15	2	"Dogs to a Gunfight"	Phil Abraham	Marco Ramirez & Douglas Petrie	March18,2016
Nelson finds Murdock the next morning. Though his body armor saved his life, Murdock's head and heightened senses are damaged and impaired, and Nelson insists that he rest and recover. Nelson attempts to get Grotto into witness protection, but since all of his mob contacts were murdered, District Attorney (DA) Samantha Reyes only agrees if Grotto wears a wire to a meeting with a high-level drug lord. After his senses improve, Murdock asks his armorer, Melvin Potter, for a new, improved mask, before investigating the hideout where the Irish were murdered. Realizing that they had a now missing dog, Murdock tracks it to a nearby apartment, where the other vigilante—nicknamed "The Punisher" by the DA's office—had been listening to the DA's operation with Grotto on a police radio. When the Punisher attacks the operation, Nelson and Page realize that Reyes had always meant it as a trap. Police snipers fire at the Punisher as Daredevil arrives and attacks him. Grotto escapes in the chaos, while Murdock is injured and loses consciousness.
16	3	"New York's Finest"	Marc Jobst	Mark Verheiden	March18,2016
Daredevil wakes up as the Punisher's captive, and pleads with him to stop killing, feeling that there is goodness within anyone, and that no criminal is beyond redemption. The Punisher insists that what he does is necessary, that by murdering criminals he stops them from doing wrong ever again, while Daredevil merely delays the inevitable by injuring them. Their debate culminates in Punisher bringing out Grotto, whom he caught stealing a car in an attempt to flee the city, and strapping a gun with a single bullet to Daredevil's hand, offering him the choice of killing Grotto, killing the Punisher before he kills Grotto, or doing nothing and living with the fact that his actions caused someone's death anyway. Daredevil shoots the chains holding him and breaks free, but in doing so gives the Punisher time to fatally shoot Grotto. As the dying Grotto asks why Daredevil allowed him to die, the Punisher attacks a nearby Dogs of Hell group. Daredevil knocks the Punisher unconscious, and then fights his way through the angry gang members to safety.
17	4	"Penny and Dime"	Peter Hoar	John C. Kelley	March18,2016
Finn Cooley, a high-profile member of the Irish Mob whose son was killed by the Punisher, arrives in New York seeking revenge, and tracks the dog Punisher took to his apartment, where he realizes who the Punisher is. Page begins investigating the Punisher herself, using files slipped to her by assistant DA Blake Tower. She learns that he is a former United States Marine named Frank Castle, whose family was murdered during a shootout between the Irish and the Dogs of Hell, leaving him the sole survivor. Barely surviving, Castle was angered over an apparent cover up of the shooting, potentially orchestrated by Reyes. The Irish confront Castle at the scene of his family's murder and take him hostage. Cooley violently tortures him, until Castle escapes and brutally kills Cooley and several other Irish gangsters. Daredevil finds them and stops Castle from murdering anyone else, helping him escape. Castle tells Daredevil about his family, before allowing himself to be arrested, with Daredevil giving credit for his capture to Sergeant Brett Mahoney in hopes of restoring the public's faith in the police rather than in vigilante justice.
18	5	"Kinbaku"	Floria Sigismondi	Lauren Schmidt Hissrich	March18,2016
Ten years ago, Murdock met Elektra Natchios, the bored daughter of a wealthy Greek ambassador. The two bonded over their shared thrill-seeking nature and skills, with Murdock eventually revealing his abilities and the nature of his father's death at the hands of Roscoe Sweeney. When Natchios manipulated Murdock into confronting Sweeney, hoping to have Murdock kill him, Murdock refused to do so, and Natchios left. In the present day, Natchios returns to New York asking for Murdock's help with the Japanese arm of the Roxxon Corporation, with whom her late father had dealings. Murdock refuses, but spies on her business meeting with the company, where she plants a bug in their system. Murdock later confronts Natchios about Sweeney, and she claims that she knows Murdock's true nature, which she believes is the same as hers. To prove it, she has manipulated him once again, revealing that she has his Daredevil costume for him as what appears to be remnants of the Yakuza track the bug to her apartment.
19	6	"Regrets Only"	Andy Goddard	Sneha Koorse	March18,2016
Murdock and Natchios defeat the Yakuza assailants. Natchios believes that the Yakuza are up to something big in New York, and Murdock reluctantly agrees to continue helping her when she promises to leave the city once they are done. Murdock, Nelson, and Page are visited by the public defender on the Punisher case, who reveals that Reyes intends to link Castle to other Dogs of Hell murders outside of New York, making the death penalty an option. Murdock and Page convince Nelson that they should be helping Castle themselves, to protect him from Reyes and learn what really happened to him and his family. While Murdock and Natchios attend a Roxxon gala and steal a valuable Yakuza ledger, Page reveals to Castle what she has learned of his past, eventually earning his cooperation. However, in front of Reyes and the judge, Castle refuses a plea deal that would give him life in prison and instead pleads not guilty. An angered Reyes has the trial fast tracked, with The People v. Frank Castle set to begin within a week.
20	7	"Semper Fidelis"	Ken Girotti	Luke Kalteux	March18,2016
Because of his dealings with Natchios, Murdock is late for Castle's trial, and Nelson steps in for the opening statement. Unable to use a PTSD defense from Castle's time at war—Castle believes it would be disrespectful to real PTSD-suffering war veterans—Nelson instead focuses on Castle's family being failed by the justice system. Murdock works with Page in preparing to cross-examine the chief medical examiner, who likely doctored the Castle family death certificates for Reyes, but before he can do so in court the man confesses; he had been tortured the night before into revealing the truth. Murdock realizes that Natchios had overheard him and Page and attempted to "help", and reveals his involvement with her to Nelson. With the examiner's testimony now invalid, Nelson's relationship with Murdock fractures. Murdock confronts Natchios, who agrees to stay away from the trial, before joining her in searching an abandoned building site from which the Yakuza ledger revealed shipments of dirt. Inside they find a giant hole.
21	8	"Guilty as Sin"	Michael Uppendahl	Whit Anderson	March18,2016
Murdock and Natchios are attacked by ninjas, and have to be saved by Murdock's old mentor Stick. They escape back to Murdock's apartment, where Stick reveals to Murdock that Natchios works for him (and has done since before she first met Murdock, which was on a mission to recruit him for Stick) as he fights a war for the Chaste against the ancient group The Hand, for which the Japanese Roxxon arm and the Yakuza are fronts. Murdock offers to take Natchios back and help her defeat the Hand if she renounces Stick and his murderous ways; she agrees. In court, Nelson begins to sway the jury in Castle's favor, but Castle takes the stand and purposefully wrecks his own defense. Page and Nelson blame Murdock for losing the trial. Natchios and Murdock share a close moment before they are attacked by a lone ninja. Murdock subdues him and discovers that he is only a teenager, before Natchios slits his throat, to Murdock's horror. Castle enters prison, and is led by a guard to a meeting with Fisk.
22	9	"Seven Minutes in Heaven"	Stephen Surjik	Marco Ramirez & Lauren Schmidt Hissrich	March18,2016
Fisk offers Castle a chance at Dutton, the "kingpin" of Ryker's Island prison who Fisk believes organised the deal-gone-wrong which lead to the deaths of Castle's family. Fisk admits that this will allow him to take control of the prison himself. Castle mortally wounds Dutton, who reveals that he organised the deal for a drug dealer called "the Blacksmith". Fisk then betrays Castle by releasing Dutton's supporters on him, but Castle slaughters them all. Realizing that Castle could be an asset against Fisk's competitors while the latter is imprisoned, Fisk arranges for Castle to escape the prison. However, Castle warns Fisk that the next time he sees him, he will kill him. Nelson and Murdock agree to part ways, while Page continues her personal investigation of Castle. She confirms with the now former-chief medical examiner that in addition to the Castle family there was another victim of the massacre, an undercover cop; the deal and subsequent massacre were part of a sting operation. Murdock investigates a Hand facility called the Farm, where he is confronted by Nobu Yoshioka, whom he had previously killed.
23	10	"The Man in the Box"	Peter Hoar	Story by: John C. Kelley
Teleplay by: Whit Anderson & Sneha Koorse	March18,2016
Daredevil asks Mahoney to send the several children being used as apparent human incubators for a mix of chemicals at the Farm to nurse Claire Temple to receive hospital treatment. Learning of Castle's escape, Reyes has Nelson, Murdock, and Page meet at her office. She confirms that her office had organised the sting on the Blacksmith's deal with the Irish, Cartel, and Dogs of Hell, and explains that she chose not to clear the area so as not to tip off the criminals, leading to the deaths of the undercover cop and Castle's family when the deal went south. Now, she believes that Castle is targeting her daughter, and pleads for help in bringing him in. However, Reyes is gunned down in front of them by an unidentified shooter, and Foggy is wounded. Murdock visits Fisk in prison and confirms his suspicions, that Fisk is running it and orchestrated Castle's release. Natchios kills an assassin sent by Stick, and Castle saves Page from a similar attack to the one on Reyes. At the hospital, the children awake as Daredevil prepares to defend the building from the Hand.
24	11	".380"	Stephen Surjik	Mark Verheiden	March18,2016
Daredevil saves Temple from the Hand, but the children willingly leave with the ninjas and drain themselves of their blood to feed the chemicals into an ancient device. Some of the Hand died during the fight, and an attempted autopsy on one of them shows the scars of a prior autopsy. The hospital board chooses to cover this up, compelling Temple to quit. Page and Castle are confronted by the Blacksmith's men, and Castle violently beats his location out of them before murdering them. He then leaves the horrified Page. Daredevil confronts Tower, who reveals the one lead the DA's office has on the Blacksmith: a competitor working out of Chinatown. Daredevil goes there to find Madame Gao, an old ally of Fisk's, who sends him to the pier. Castle attacks a boat there, used to smuggle drugs, and attempts to kill a man claiming to be the Blacksmith; Daredevil stops him, but the Blacksmith's men arrive and attack the boat. Learning that Natchios survived the hit, Stick prepares to fight her himself.
25	12	"The Dark at the End of the Tunnel"	Euros Lyn	Lauren Schmidt Hissrich & Douglas Petrie	March18,2016
Stick regrets never being able to "tame" Natchios, who always had an affinity for murder, and is trying to rectify that mistake. It was also shown that he killed his colleague Star to protect Elektra. Daredevil stops the two from killing each other, but the Hand arrive and kidnap Stick. The police believe that Castle is dead, and Page reluctantly agrees; rather than dropping her investigation into Castle, which she was going to write an exposé on for the New York Bulletin, Page decides to write a profile to show the public that there was more to Castle than just the Punisher. She interviews Castle's Marine commander Ray Schoonover, but realizes that he is the Blacksmith. Castle arrives and murders Schoonover despite Page's pleas. Daredevil and Natchios find Stick, with Natchios still bent on killing him. However, they are confronted by Yoshioka, who reveals that Natchios' killer instincts are because she is the Black Sky, a mythical weapon worshiped by the Hand. Natchios considers accepting the Hand's fealty, but Daredevil convinces her to choose her own destiny, and she instead helps Stick escape.
26	13	"A Cold Day in Hell's Kitchen"	Peter Hoar	Douglas Petrie & Marco Ramirez	March18,2016
Nelson joins the law firm of Jeri Hogarth. With Stick safe at Murdock's apartment, the Hand raids a police station for information on people Daredevil has helped. They take hostages including Page and criminal Turk Barrett. Because Barrett is on house arrest, police officers tracking him report the situation before they are killed by the Hand. Murdock and Natchios use this call to find the hostages and free them before they can cut off Turk's foot to remove his ankle monitor. They are then confronted by a horde of Hand ninjas, led by Yoshioka. Natchios sacrifices herself to save Murdock, and he defeats the rest of the Hand with help of Castle, who looks to move on from his past and accept the Punisher mantle. Stick returns to finish off Yoshioka, beheading him. Murdock and Stick mourn Natchios, with Murdock stating that his love for her was worth it, and accepting that Stick's philosophy of cutting off emotional ties is flawed. He arranges a meeting with Page, and reveals to her that he is Daredevil. The Hand later exhume Natchios' body, and place her in the ancient device.
Close ▲
Production
Development
When asked about the future of the series following the first season, showrunner Steven S. DeKnight said that Daredevil "is one part of the bigger plan—Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, Iron Fist, and then The Defenders. How that all fits together, and whether or not there will be a second season of this show—or if it will fold into the others—are questions nobody really has answers to yet." In November 2014, DeKnight said that there "probably will be more" seasons of Daredevil following the first. In January 2015, Netflix COO Ted Sarandos stated the series was "eligible to go into multiple seasons for sure" and Netflix would look at "how well [they] are addressing both the Marvel fanbase but also the broader fanbase" to determine if additional seasons would be appropriate.

On April 21, 2015, Marvel and Netflix announced that the series had been renewed for a second season, with Doug Petrie and Marco Ramirez replacing DeKnight as showrunners as well as acting as executive producers; both served as writers in the first season and worked closely with DeKnight and series creator Drew Goddard. The season introduces the Frank Castle / Punisher, whom DeKnight and the writers had wanted to introduce in a post-credits scene during the first-season finale but were unable due to the way that Netflix begins the next episode during the credits of the current one. DeKnight felt that this "was the right decision. I think there's a better, more organic way to introduce him to the world." Ramirez referred to the second season internally as "Daredevil vs. the Punisher". In September 2015, Goddard explained that he was still involved with the season as an executive producer, consulting with Petrie and Ramirez when asked to. The season consists of 13-hour-long episodes.

Writing
What's fantastic about the story is, is that it's created this enormous division in his life, because the woman that he once loved has returned, and she certainly has some issues with morality, and how you get the job done, and going on the other end of the spectrum is Frank Castle, who believes that justice needs to be served in a particular way. For Matt, who believes in the law, the question of whether or not he is a vigilante, and whether or not that makes him the same as these people, is something that will drive the story, and will drive Matt.

Jeph Loeb on how the season explores "what it is to be a hero".

Ramirez talked about how the second season would be different from the first, saying that the writers had spent the first season wondering "if there was a place for dark and gritty content in superheroes" and because of the positive fan reaction to that ("we got a loud answer of 'yes'"), approached the second season with the mindset, "you wanted grounded and wanted dark, here's Elektra and Punisher. You asked for it." Petrie, talking about the potential use of flashbacks in the season, said that sometimes it is best to "peel back the layer of the onion through flashback, or two people in a room talking can have all the power in the world. That's something we get to pick and choose."

On including the Punisher specifically in the season, where he is introduced to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Goddard felt television was the best fit for the character, as the writers are "able to do things on the small screen that fit that character better than if we had to water him down for the movies." Goddard stated that the season's approach to the characters and their actions would be to do what makes sense for the characters rather than "pushing the boundary" or looking to shock the audience, though he noted that this could still go in a more "adult...darker, dirtier"[failed verification] way due to the freedom of Netflix and the presence of characters such as the Punisher. Petrie stated that the writers hoped to "stir the pot" and "get people to think" with the inclusion of the Punisher and his lethal methods, adding, "Taking lethal justice into your own hands in America in 2015 is tricky shit. We have not shied away from the rich complicated reality of Now. If you've got a gun and you're not the police you're going to incite strong feelings." Ramirez added that Castle was not referred to as "Punisher" in the writer's room, similarly to Wilson Fisk not being called "Kingpin" for season one, as it allowed the writers to think "about [Castle] as a man with a vendetta, who made an oath to his dead family. The more specific it got, the less it became about issues outside of Hell's Kitchen or other things." In the series, the moniker of "The Punisher" is given to Castle by the media due to his aggressive actions.

For the timing of introducing the new characters, the showrunners decided to introduce the Punisher immediately and hold back on Elektra briefly, with Ramirez explaining that "one of the pitfalls when we have this many great characters to play with is wanting to throw them at the wall", but it was important to take the time to introduce the new characters properly to the audience, particularly to the people who weren't already familiar with them. Elaborating on the aim to keep the story focused on Murdock, Petrie revealed that the writers would often come up with "amazing stuff" for the season, but then realize that they had forgotten about Murdock and had to "completely turn it over and look at how this affects Matt and filter it through that prism." Ramirez added,

It could easily become The Punisher story or the Elektra story that Matt cameos in, and not vice versa. So, we built it like a Matt story, in terms of what we wanted to put him through, where we wanted to get him, by the end of the season, and what we wanted to have him learn about himself, and we used an Elektra and Frank story throughout, to get him there [...] we talked about when we watch shows in 13 episode stretches, how do we watch them? What is an exciting structure that we would like to think about here? Do we divide it right down the middle? Do we do a three-act structure? [...] If you were to sit and watch 13 episodes, you would absolutely feel a structure, much like in the comics. That's what we did this season.

Charlie Cox explained that with Wilson Fisk imprisoned following the first season, season two picks up with "the crime rate [having] plummeted. Things have returned to normal, if not better than normal", which is when Punisher is introduced, who makes Matt Murdock "question everything. Matt has to reevaluate who is[sic] and what he does". Jeph Loeb, head of Marvel Television, said that "if season one was really about Matt's decision to become a hero, then season two really became about what is it to be a hero." By introducing the Punisher and Elektra, the writers were able to "push and pull" on Murdock, contrasting their three ideologies—the Punisher seeing "justice in a very black-and-white kind of way", and Elektra living "more in the gray". On Elektra in particular, Loeb said that she has a very clear, self-motivated agenda, and she challenges Murdock's own agenda and "quest for justice. Who are you doing this for? Why are you doing this? What's the end goal that you're trying to achieve?" More backstory and story arcs had been created for the characters Nobu and Gao, but this was not used, which Nobu actor Peter Shinkoda attributes to Loeb not caring about Asian people.

Design
Joshua Shaw designed costumes for characters in the season. Petrie stated that more layers were added to the series' atmosphere to keep the season dark but provide more clarity to the viewer, an issue that occurred in the first season. Petrie also talked about the costumes for characters such as Elektra, noting that they had to not only look at the comics and "what looks cool", but also "what would you really fight in? What would protect you? [...] will people be wearing kick ass costumes in this show? At some point, everybody does. We promise. But, that said, we want to make them feel as organic and grounded as possible.

Lorraine Calvert joined the series as costume designer for the season. On adapting Elektra's costume for the season, which in the comics usually consists of impractically "strappy" red cloth, Calvert decided to make it utilitarian and appealing, while still being faithful to the comics. Originally starting out opposite of the eventual sleek design for both her fighting and daytime attire, Calvert said, "Ideas were tossed around about how she was possibly bohemian, [because] she was a free spirit who traveled all over the world with as much money as she possibly could." This eventually led to the final, sleeker design, because Elektra "really needs a very simple, elegant line because too much cloth is overwhelming." The costume consisted of "black moto pants, a one-piece zippered body suit, a sleeveless vest, and red cloth to provide the highlights and the hood covering Elektra's face." The shade of the red used for Elektra throughout the season was chosen so it would not clash with the red in Daredevil's costume, as well as to match the darker tone of the series.

Daredevil's costume was also upgraded in the season, with Calvert calling it "a much more fluid suit and much more tactical in a way." The costume department "streamlined" the suit to make it simpler, using less material on the gauntlets and boots. Cox described it as a "delicate area" that required some "tweaks" after the brief use of it at the end of the first season. He noted that the changes are weaved into the storyline of the season, including the need for a new, redesigned mask, and a lower-half of the suit that is closer to the original cargo pants that the character wore earlier in the previous season. These baggier pants gave Cox and his stunt double much more maneuverability.

Filming
Production on the season began in July 2015 in East Harlem, with the working title Ringside, and a nine-day-per-episode schedule. Filming locations included the Metro Theater; Roosevelt Island; Greenpoint, Brooklyn; Long Island City; SoHo for exterior shots of Murdock's apartment; Newtown Creek; the Forest Park Carousel; Bayside, Queens for Castle's old home; Green-Wood Cemetery and Catacombs; East Village; the Bronx County Courthouse; Tribeca; Hell's Kitchen; the Brooklyn Navy Yard; Fort Totten and tunnels inside Bayley Seton Hospital for when Murdock confronts the Hand; and Calvary Cemetery. Filming ended in December 2015.

Martin Ahlgren joined the series as director of photography for the season, deciding to "go in a slightly different direction" than the first season, but retaining "the yellowish street light color that gave season one a very distinct style". Ahlgren filmed season two in 4K resolution on RED Dragon cameras, and tried to use in-shot lighting such as lamps and car headlights, as well as "4×4 Light Blankets—flexible sheets of LED that was small enough to fit into tight locations and light enough that it could be taped to a wall, yet outputs a very nice soft light that can be adjusted from daylight to tungsten color". Ahlgren highlighted the car chase at the beginning of "Guilty as Sin" as a challenge, noting the many ninjas chasing the car, and the one that "jumps up on the car and travels on the roof for a block", with all the stunts filmed on location. An Ultimate Arm, "a motorized crane mounted on a Porsche Cayenne", was used for the sequence, a break from the series' usual handheld and steadicam operations. The chase was shot over two nights in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, with the interior of the car then filmed on a green screen stage, a rarity for the series, "to give the actors a better environment to act in".

On the season's fight sequences and choreography, Bernthal said, "The fights are all character-driven and the fights tell a story". Cox added that "there is absolutely an attempt to make sure every punch or kick that is thrown is like a line of dialogue; there is motive behind it, there is reason behind it, it means something". Cox's stunt double, Chris Brewster, explained how the series' fight choreography has evolved, with the first season having shown Murdock just starting out as a vigilante—"he fought with all heart and soul, but wasn't a polished fighter. He was more raw and gritty"—while the second season sees the character having learned from previous mistakes—"his style is more defined and thought out now, but he will always fight with the Daredevil flair". As for the fighting styles of Punisher and Elektra, Brewster said that because of the Punisher's military background he uses a lot of weapons, and his "hand to hand style is more of a close quarter combat nature", while Elektra was trained by Stick and the Hand, so she has similar movement to Daredevil who was also trained by Stick. "However", Brewster continued, "The Hand are trained assassins who are all about stealth takeouts and quick kills. Her style shows elements of" that as well. The season uses multiple different martial art styles, including kali, Chinese kung fu, wing chun, kenjutsu, and boxing.

The one-take fight in "New York's Finest" in which Daredevil fights gang members down a staircase was described by Cox as "kind of like an homage" to the first season's well received one-take hallway fight scene, and "almost like that scene on crack". Silvera noted that it is a metaphorical "descent into Hell" rather than a "test of will" like the first season's scene. The stunt team had three days to prepare the fight, and the final sequence was filmed in a day and a half. Unlike the first season's scene, which was shot on a set and used a camera mounted on a ceiling track, the stairwell sequence was filmed on location, and required the camera to be passed around multiple people to get the final shot. The season includes another homage to the hallway scene in "Seven Minutes in Heaven", where the Punisher has his own hallway fight. Silvera noted that this "full-blown", murdering Punisher was "a strong contrast to Daredevil". For all the season's fights, the stunt team filmed a previsualization version using stunt doubles, with the actors, such as Cox, then shown this in sections on the day of filming, and allowed to make adjustments where necessary. Though the actors completed the majority of the fights, doubles were used for flips and major stunts.

Visual effects
Shade VFX returns from the first season to work on the visual effects for the series.

Music
By September 2015, John Paesano had begun composing music for the season. He felt that the season's new showrunners "were true to what we were trying to do in season one. There were just elements in season two that we had to acknowledge" such as the Punisher and Elektra. He jokingly said that "it's not like we all of the sudden went into John Williams territory, you know? It's definitely still dark, still gritty [...] but it definitely jumps up a couple levels." When approaching the characters of Punisher and Elektra, with whom Paesano was familiar from the comics and previous adaptations, he "took all those preconceived notions I had with a grain of salt" and waited to see what the season's interpretation of the characters would be. Paesano worked closely with the series' sound design team, spotting episodes with them to coordinate where "we were going to hit what" and "maintain that definable aspect of New York" and its sound. A soundtrack album for the season was released digitally by Hollywood Records on July 15, 2016.

All music composed by John Paesano, unless otherwise noted.

Daredevil: Season 2 (Original Soundtrack Album)
No.	Title	Music	Length
1.	"Main Title"	Braden Kimball and John Paesano	1:03
2.	"Devil of Hell's Kitchen"		2:47
3.	"The Punisher"		4:19
4.	"Stairway to Hell"		3:25
5.	"Raindrops"		3:03
6.	"Sparring"		2:51
7.	"Playing House"		1:41
8.	"Dripping Chilis"		3:47
9.	"Ninjas!"		3:47
10.	"Cell Block D"		4:19
11.	"Black Sky"		3:42
12.	"The Diner"		5:41
13.	"Stick and Ellie"		2:26
14.	"They Have Nothing Now"		6:12
15.	"To Be a Hero"		1:46
Total length:	50:49
Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
On references to the larger MCU, Ramirez said "those little Easter eggs that come along the way are fun", but there were times when the writers did not take opportunities to reference the rest of the universe because they felt like distractions from the series' narrative and characters. Petrie stated that the writers wanted to "keep it in Hell's Kitchen" and focus on issues such as "the air conditioner doesn't work at Nelson and Murdock. That's really what we're interested in." He explained that the real life New York City "has a larger than life presence" with celebrities that live there—"If you see Derek Jeter walking down the street, that's great, but then you turn the corner and you get into an argument with the guy who overcharged you for a pretzel. We want our guys to be real New Yorkers."

The season features the motorcycle gang Dogs of Hell, who were first introduced through their Nevada chapter in the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. episode "Yes Men", and Roxxon Corporation, a company featured throughout the MCU. It also mentions the vigilantes Jessica Jones and Luke Cage, the death of Oscar Clemons, and the law firm Hogarth, Chao, and Benowitz, which are all references to the first season of Jessica Jones. When Claire Temple first appears in the season, she has "a cut in her eyebrow", which Cox was told would be explained in Luke Cage, saying, "the timeline had been thought through and worked out so that whatever's going on in Luke Cage ... somehow at some point during that show, the next day she's in the hospital talking to me."

Marketing
Footage from the season was shown at New York Comic Con in October 2015, and at Comic Con Experience that December. On February 15, 2016, the first part of the season trailer was released focusing on the Punisher, while the second part focusing on Elektra was released 10 days later, on February 25. Scott Mendelson of Forbes felt the first part is "clearly going for a vibe similar to that first full-length Dark Knight teaser back in December of 2007, with Castle being framed as a natural byproduct of/reaction to Daredevil's own vigilantism". He also appreciated that it appeared Castle would be presented as a villain, as the previous film adaptions of the character always had Castle "still a hero at the end". Mendelson's one drawback to the trailer was when Castle starts "monologue-ing" in the last third, feeling Bernthal "casts such an imposing and grim shadow as a near-silent angel of death that the [haunting and mythological] mood is almost broken". Joanna Robinson at Vanity Fair felt that the premise of the trailer, with Daredevil facing the Punisher, is "right in line with the big superhero trend this spring", comparing it to Captain America: Civil War and Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, which feature Captain America fighting Iron Man and Batman fighting Superman, respectively. Robinson wondered if, like those films, the season also has a separate, "bigger bad waiting in the wings to unite our vigilantes" that the trailer is hiding.

On March 7, 2016, the first two episodes of the season premiered in Paris, with a premiere in New York City on March 10. Also in early March, billboards were erected in Toronto featuring character posters for Daredevil, Punisher and Elektra. The series' Twitter account encouraged users to vote for which character was their favorite, with the other two receiving blood and bruises added to their billboards.

Release
Streaming
The second season of Daredevil was released on March 18, 2016, on the streaming service Netflix worldwide, in Ultra HD 4K. Preparing for the release, Netflix created eight different images to use as cover art for the season on its site. The images were randomly distributed among select subscribers, with Netflix tracking to see which one was the best-performing to eventually use for all subscribers. Netflix also debuted a countdown timer to a percentage of its users worldwide, allowing them to see how long it was until the season would debut. The season was enhanced to be available in high-dynamic-range video after its initial release by post-production vendor Deluxe.

The season, along with the additional Daredevil seasons and the other Marvel Netflix series, was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. The season became available on Disney+ in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand on March 16, ahead of its debut in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022.

Home media
The season was released on DVD in Region 2 and Blu-ray in Region B on May 15, 2017, in Region 4 on June 14, 2017, and in Region 1 and Region A on August 22, 2017.

Reception
Audience viewership
As Netflix does not reveal subscriber viewership numbers for any of their original series, Symphony Technology Group compiled data for the season based on people using software on their phones that measures television viewing by detecting a program's sound. According to Symphony, the second season of Daredevil had 5.94% of viewers age 18-49 watching in an average minute in the first 32 days following its release. Symphony also estimated that 3.2million viewers age 18-49 were watching an episode of Daredevil's second season over the average minute in its first weekend of release. The marketing analytics firm Jumpshot determined the season was the most viewed Netflix season in the first 30 days after it premiered. Jumpshot, which "analyzes click-stream data from an online panel of more than 100 million consumers", looked at the viewing behavior and activity of the company's U.S. members, factoring in the relative number of U.S. Netflix viewers who watched at least one episode of the season.

Critical response
Jon Bernthal's performance as Frank Castle / Punisher was one of the highlights of the series for critics.[80][81][82][83]
Jon Bernthal's performance as Frank Castle / Punisher was one of the highlights of the series for critics.
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported an 81% approval rating with an average rating of 6.90/10 based on 57 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Bolstered by some impressive action, Daredevil keeps its footing in season two, even if its new adversaries can't quite fill the void left by Wilson Fisk." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 68 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Reviewing the first seven episodes, Brian Lowry of Variety said, the season begins "on an uneven note", comparing some of the early moments to the works of Sam Peckinpah, "complete with slow-motion bullets and blood sprays. Stick with it, though, and the show blossoms, featuring a few terrific action sequences while introducing into this grim world seminal characters the Punisher and Elektra." Kevin Fitzpatrick of ScreenCrush felt the first seven episodes of the season seemed "to have learned the best of both" from season one and Jessica Jones, "placing its most compelling imagery front and center straightaway, but still taking time to pick apart the characters beneath them, rather than shout platitudes about saving the city". He also praised the castings of Bernthal and Yung as Punisher and Elektra, respectively, and enjoyed "the improved spotlight" for Foggy and Karen, given the reduction of Dawson saying, "So many superhero series struggle to draw its supporting characters as compellingly as the action, and Daredevil's particular blend of set piece and legal thriller feels inescapably original". However, Fitzpatrick did note the series lacked the presence Vondie Curtis-Hall brought as Ben Urich in the first season. He concluded that the season's progression "feels much cleaner" than the first's, "moving almost in acts more than back and forth victories [...] Even the aim feels that much more cohesive, to start in a place of Matt, Foggy and Karen all confident in their new roles, but wrestling with the consequence of their choice to always help the helpless." Merrill Barr of Forbes said, "Daredevil season two is very much the same excellent show Daredevil season one was... but in the places it isn't, it's also very much improved". Barr praised Bernthal as the Punisher, and noted the reduction in the amount of "thick blacks" in the cinematography that the first season was criticized for.

Collider's Chris Cabin also praised the first seven episodes of the season, giving it four stars, and saying that the series "finds overwhelmingly sincere and effective traces of humanity in a genre that has been hard-pressed to feel overtly pre-conceived in its political, societal, and philosophical ideas". He said Daredevil, like Jessica Jones, "feels like a show that is constantly evolving, and consistently searching for challenges". Cabin also felt that "the show's use of sound and image to infer or suggest as much as any line of dialogue [...] continues to set this series apart from its half-measured kin." He added that the season "goes to great lengths to make the stakes of" the moral and ethical issues, as seen by pitting Daredevil's methods against the Punisher, "intensely involving and thrilling," while also praising the action sequences of the season and the "streamlined focus on character in the writing", claiming that "none of the [MCU] films have even an iota of the seductive intimacy and heart of this show." Dennis Perkins writing for The A.V. Club awarded the season a "B+", missing D'Onofrio's "towering menace as Wilson Fisk", but feeling that Bernthal and Yung "make Castle and Elektra an effective season-long two-pronged assault on Matt Murdock's heroic identity, which gives Daredevil's supporting characters a clearer purpose as well." IGN reviewer Matt Fowler, after reviewing all the episodes of season two individually, gave the season a 9.3 out of 10, saying that it "excels at both action and story while giving us a much more complex and layered season than the first. [...] Gone is a notable 'main villain', but instead we're given fantastic performances by not only the main returning cast but by the newly introduced Jon Bernthal and Elodie Yung."

Jack Shepherd of The Independent was slightly more critical of the early episodes of the season, saying the ideological battle between Murdock and Castle "is the crux of these first few episodes and also highlights the main problem with Daredevil" pointing out that "there is no real bad guy here" and there "is only so many times you can watch an episode end with Daredevil and Punisher beating each other up before you start thinking there is a glitch in the Matrix." He also agreed with Fitzpatick regarding Curtis-Hall's presence as Ben Urich not being filled in the season. Despite this, Shepherd added that the season began to pick up by the fourth episode, with the introduction of Elektra, capping with episodes six and seven, which he called "by far the season's best, laying the foundation for an exciting story ahead", while also praising Cox, Henson, Woll, Bernthal and Yung for their performances. Daniel Fienberg, reviewing the first seven episodes for The Hollywood Reporter, expressed similar sentiments as Shepherd, feeling the episodes missed what Vincent D'Onofrio brought as Wilson Fisk in the first season, or at least "the through-line threat that he presented...Fortunately, the [Punisher and Elektra] are vividly realized and the action is still visceral and brutal and maybe the big picture will emerge in the season's second half. Because of the portrayals of those two characters, he felt "that there's a challenge to remain wholly invested in plotlines that don't involve them". Despite being "right on the edge of desensitization" regarding the fight scenes, Fienberg still praised them, highlighting the different styles Elektra and the Punisher used "vary[ing] the dynamic enough".

Entertainment Weekly's Jeff Jensen award the season a "C", calling it "a straight-up disappointment". Calling the early episodes with Daredevil's face-off with the Punisher "skimpy and sluggish from the get-go", Jensen also added that they were "a flatline of inert drama, with long scenes of windy exposition or dull skulking interrupted by the occasional well-staged if ridiculously gory fight sequence." Jensen added that "hope for improvement" came with the introduction of Elektra, and that the sixth episode should be a template for the rest of the season, which ultimately, he felt was "stiff and silly." Daniel D'Addario for Time was also disappointed with the season, saying, "it's hard not to feel that one is being taken for a long, and not particularly enjoyable, ride [...] Daredevil just wants to dole out fun doses of extreme gore on the path to an endpoint on a business plan. Any viewer committed to story is left searching in the dark." Vulture's Abraham Riesman joined the criticism, calling the seven episodes reviewed "a dour parade of one cliché after another, recycling themes, images, and rhetoric that audiences have seen countless times before." Though he wouldn't call it "bad", he felt that with all the other superhero content released in the same year, "it feels woefully unnecessary." However, he did praise Bernthal's performance, saying it was "another excitingly sympathetic antagonist" after D'Onofrio's "standout performance" as Fisk in the first season, but was "nowhere near as fun". In contrast to the first season of Jessica Jones, which Riseman called Marvel's "first attempt to depict sex in any kind of realistic way", he called the second season of Daredevil "astoundingly un-sexy."

Accolades
Got Your 6, which "champions positive portrayals of military veterans in Hollywood", deemed "Semper Fidelis" to be "6 Certified" for "responsibly and accurately portray[ing] veterans via the character of Frank Castle, The Punisher, who insists that his legal representation not perpetuate veteran stereotypes of PTSD in order to defend his actions". Daredevil was included on Hidden Remote's Best TV Series of 2016 list, ranking 4th. Comic Book Resources named "Seven Minutes in Heaven" and "Penny and Dime" as the 12th and 2nd best episodes in 2016 among comic book-related television series, respectively.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2016	Got Your 6	6 Certified – for "a representative and balanced depiction of veterans"	"Semper Fidelis"	Won
Online Film & Television Association Award	Best Sound in a Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series	"New York's Finest"	Nominated
Outstanding Stunt Coordination for a Drama Series, Limited Series or Movie	Philip J. Silvera	Nominated
2017	Saturn Awards	Best New Media Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Best Actor on Television	Charlie Cox	Nominated
Screen Actors Guild Awards	Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Television Series	Daredevil	Nominated
Close ▲
References
External links
Daredevil
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Daredevil
The Punisher
Daredevil (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
27	1	"Resurrection"	Marc Jobst	Erik Oleson	October19,2018
After being seriously injured when a building collapses on him while fighting as the vigilante "Daredevil", Matt Murdock washes out of the New York City sewer system. A taxi driver finds Matt and gets him to Father Paul Lantom, who entrusts Matt to the care of Sister Maggie at the Saint Agnes Orphanage, where Matt was raised. As he slowly recovers, Matt has a crisis of faith and decides that he would rather put his life in danger and continue fighting as Daredevil than return to his civilian life. He begins training to fight again. One night he stops a kidnapping and is badly beaten. Matt's friends, Karen Page (now a reporter for the New York Bulletin) and Foggy Nelson, start to lose hope that he may still be alive. In prison, criminal Wilson Fisk decides to make a deal with the FBI to protect his love Vanessa Marianna, who can be charged as an accessory to his crimes. The case is assigned to Special Agent Rahul "Ray" Nadeem, who is struggling with being unable to receive a promotion due to financial troubles after he paid for his sister-in-law's cancer treatment.
28	2	"Please"	Lukas Ettlin	Jim Dunn	October19,2018
Fisk's intel leads to the arrest of the elusive Albanian syndicate's leaders, and Nadeem convinces his superiors to let him continue to work with Fisk despite his financial troubles making him a target for bribery. News of Fisk's cooperation with the FBI spreads fast, and in retaliation he is attacked in prison by a fellow inmate. Nadeem agrees to move Fisk out of prison and into home detention, but their convoy is attacked by the Albanians on the way, and most of the FBI agents are killed. Fisk is saved by Special Agent Benjamin "Dex" Poindexter, who has incredibly accurate shooting skills and executes some of the attackers even after they surrender. Matt tracks down the attempted kidnappers and beats them, leaving them to be arrested. Karen is assigned to report on the attempted kidnapping, which involved the well-known Neda Kazemi; after hearing about the death of Karen's brother Kevin, Neda opens up to Karen about the attack and leads Karen to believe that Matt is still alive, but Foggy, who is considering leaving the law to help his brother Theo run the family business, is skeptical of this.
29	3	"No Good Deed"	Jennifer Getzinger	Sonay Hoffman	October19,2018
The FBI house Fisk in the penthouse suite of a hotel they use as a safehouse. News of his release from prison becomes public, prompting protests outside of the hotel and interest from reporters, including Karen, who learns that the hotel had belonged to Neda's father Rostom, who sold it to a company represented by Fisk's lawyer Benjamin Donovan. Foggy goes to District Attorney Blake Tower to offer his help in returning Fisk to prison, but Tower is reluctant to go against the wishes of the FBI, especially since he is running for re-election. Matt investigates the hotel and begins to hallucinate Fisk as a "devil on his shoulder". Matt interrogates Donovan and learns of the situation with Vanessa. He vows to stop Fisk and return him to prison, revealing to Foggy that he is alive but only to warn him and Karen to stay away from Fisk. During a routine psychological evaluation to determine his fitness for duty, Dex talks about the emotional support that he receives from his girlfriend Julie Barnes. However, she later appears to be someone that he is stalking.
30	4	"Blindsided"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Lewaa Nasserdeen	October19,2018
Dex's superiors investigate his killing of the two Albanians during the transit attack, which he claims was in self-defense. Despite the fact that Fisk saw him kill them in cold blood, he conceals this by falsely corroborating Dex's rationale to the FBI. Foggy, unhappy with Matt's demands, tells Karen that Matt is alive and then is convinced by his girlfriend Marci Stahl to run for district attorney against Tower in order to ensure that Fisk is brought to justice. Foggy gains the support of the New York Police Department, who view Fisk as a cop killer. Karen continues her investigation and finds that prison convict Felix Manning was involved in the company that bought the hotel in which the FBI is housing Fisk. Matt impersonates Foggy to infiltrate the prison housing Jasper Evans, whom he learns was paid by Fisk to attack Fisk in order to convince the FBI to move him. With the Albanians' help, Matt fights off inmates and guards working for Fisk and escapes the prison but is driven off a dock by an unknown taxi driver.
31	5	"The Perfect Game"	Julian Holmes	Tonya Kong	October19,2018
When Fisk learns that Matt survived the submerged taxi, he tells the FBI that he has a criminal fixer named Matt Murdock. Karen confronts Fisk's actual fixer, Manning, but he threatens her with his knowledge of her family, including her brother's death. Nadeem questions both Karen and Foggy about Matt, and both try to direct him towards Fisk and his crimes. Fisk reviews a file from Manning on Dex and learns that he used his skillful aim to kill his baseball coach as a child. He was taught to be more empathetic through therapy as he grew up, but he feigned this to conceal his psychopathic tendencies. In one incident when he worked for a suicide prevention hotline, he encouraged a caller to kill someone else rather than himself. It was there that he met and fell in love with Julie, whom he now finds working at the hotel. He accidentally reveals to her that he has been stalking her. Fisk sees the potential for Dex to become the new villain that the public can focus on in order to misdirect attention from himself. Karen reveals to Foggy that she killed James Wesley.
32	6	"The Devil You Know"	Stephen Surjik	Dylan Gallagher	October19,2018
Foggy assures Karen that she is still a good person after killing Wesley in self-defense. Dex confronts Fisk, who confirms that he was behind Julie's hiring at the hotel and that he had intended to show Dex that life with Julie was not going to work since she would never understand Dex. Fisk, however, tells him that he, Fisk, does understand Dex, in light of his own boyhood murder of his father. Matt visits Karen to ask for her help in finding Evans and offers to testify against Fisk. Foggy arranges a meeting between a newly promoted Nadeem and Karen at the New York Bulletin, where she will interview Evans about Fisk's plans. In exchange for Nadeem considering Evans' testimony, Matt agrees to turn himself into the FBI in order to clear his name. Distraught over Julie, Dex considers committing suicide but is interrupted by Fisk, who proposes an alternative. Dex instead goes to the New York Bulletin dressed as Daredevil, fights off Matt, and kills Evans before he can talk. Dex is then confronted by the FBI, including Nadeem, and dispatches the agents before escaping, leading the FBI to believe that Daredevil assaulted them.
33	7	"Aftermath"	Toa Fraser	Sarah Streicher	October19,2018
Daredevil is attacked by the public and media, and Karen is unable to convince Nadeem that this was not the true Daredevil or that Fisk was behind the attack. When she tries to do the same with her boss Mitchell Ellison, he orders her to reveal who Daredevil is or quit. Karen later asks her father Paxton if she could go spend some time at home with him, but he says the timing isn't great. Foggy believes that he has worked out what Fisk is planning. Matt, angry that he put his friends in harm's way and worried about the skill of the pretend Daredevil, visits Melvin Potter, the man who created the Daredevil suit. Potter confirms that Fisk forced him to create a copy of the suit and reveals that the pretender was an FBI agent. Potter then tries to frame Matt as the Daredevil who attacked the New York Bulletin, but Matt manages to escape the arriving FBI agents. After investigating Evans, Nadeem begins to believe that Fisk is manipulating them but has no proof of this. At home, he is confronted by Matt who explains that the Daredevil attacker was a pretender and an FBI agent.
34	8	"Upstairs/Downstairs"	Alex Zakrzewski	Dara Resnik	October19,2018
Nadeem realizes that Dex is the attacker. Dex attempts to reconcile with Julie, believing that he needs her to replace his therapist who died when he was younger. She reluctantly agrees to start talking with him, but Fisk later has her killed. Believing that Julie has abandoned him, Dex continues to mentally deteriorate. Matt and Nadeem break into Dex's apartment but cannot find proof that he was the attacker, only some recordings of his therapy sessions which reveal his psychopathic tendencies. Dex arrives home and catches them, injuring Nadeem but they manage to escape. Foggy thinks that he can prove Fisk is still working as a criminal and that this will get him sent back to prison. He decides to raise these points in a debate with Tower and let Karen write about it, but instead, she goes to confront Fisk. She reveals that she knows he killed his father, and that she had killed Wesley, while accidentally confirming that Matt is Daredevil. Matt later overhears Sister Maggie praying about the fact that she is his mother.
35	9	"Revelations"	Jennifer Lynch	Erik Oleson & Sam Ernst	October19,2018
Struggling with the fact that both Maggie and Lantom had been hiding the truth from him, Matt goes to an abandoned boxing club where his father used to fight. Manning threatens Foggy's family unless he publicly apologizes for speaking out against Fisk at the debate. Karen decides to run from Fisk, and Maggie offers to help hide her. Nadeem tells his superiors, Special Agent in Charge Tammy Hattley and Supervisory Special Agent Winn of the Office of Professional Responsibility, about the FBI conspiracy involving Fisk and Dex. In a turn of events, Hattley kills Winn with Nadeem's gun, revealing that she works for Fisk. She then fabricates evidence with which she can frame Nadeem for Winn's murder, blackmailing him into working for Fisk with help from Manning. She explains that Fisk had been manipulating Nadeem for the last year and was behind the need for Nadeem to help pay for his sister-in-law's treatment. Fisk has Nadeem and Dex arrest several gang leaders across New York and bring them to a restaurant where Fisk offers to protect them from FBI charges in exchange for payment. Fisk coerces Nadeem into luring Matt to the meeting, but Matt knows it is a trap and instead goes to the hotel to wait for Fisk. While there, he overhears FBI agents loyal to Fisk who have discovered that Karen is hiding at Clinton Church.
36	10	"Karen"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Tamara Becher-Wilkinson	October19,2018
In flashback, Karen postpones going to college because she knows that her father and brother Kevin would not be able to run their family diner following her mother's death from cancer. She grows bored of her small-town life, and descends into using and selling drugs with her boyfriend Todd. One day, Kevin reveals to Karen that he has re-enrolled her in college, which Paxton celebrates with a family dinner, but this leads to an argument, and Karen runs off with Todd. After getting drunk and high together, they return to the travel trailer where Todd lives to find that Kevin is burning it down. Todd attacks Kevin, and Karen injures Todd with his own gun to stop him. She quickly drives Kevin away, but crashes, and Kevin dies. The local sheriff covers up Karen's involvement, and Paxton asks her to leave. In the present, Karen attends a service at Clinton Church when Dex, dressed as Daredevil, arrives and kills Lantom, intending to then kill Karen. Choosing between saving Karen and lying in wait for Fisk, Matt races to the church, where he confronts Dex, who badly beats Matt before Karen knocks Dex off a second-story balcony, after which he escapes.
37	11	"Reunion"	Jet Wilkinson	Jim Dunn & Dara Resnik	October19,2018
Dex has Nadeem take control of the church crime scene, and the FBI searches for Matt and Karen. They remain hidden with Maggie's help. The Justice Department drops all charges against Fisk, who announces his freedom to the public with a speech that proclaims Daredevil as the public's enemy. With Vanessa on her way back to New York City, Fisk goes to retrieve the painting she gave him when they first met; it is in the possession of Esther Falb, a Holocaust survivor whose family were the original owners of the painting. Fisk decides to let her keep it. Foggy considers reading a statement apologizing to Fisk, until he is called by Matt to help them escape the church: Foggy goes and surrenders Karen to the NYPD, which Nadeem allows, which distract the FBI long enough for Matt to escape as well. Matt, Foggy, and Karen plan their next moves against Fisk and know they will need help. Later, Nadeem and his family are attacked by FBI agents loyal to Fisk. Matt helps Nadeem fight them off, and reveals his identity to him.
38	12	"One Last Shot"	Phil Abraham	Sam Ernst	October19,2018
Fisk is reunited with Vanessa, who convinces Fisk to let her into the criminal side of his life. Without asking Fisk, Dex retrieves the painting from Falb, and Vanessa notices some of her blood on the frame. Matt agrees to carry out Foggy's plan—working together as lawyers as they once had, they take Nadeem on as a client and organize with Tower to have Nadeem testify against Fisk in front of a grand jury. Foggy also offers to withdraw from the race for district attorney, and they get Nadeem's family to safety. Meanwhile, Karen calls a press conference to announce what Nadeem is doing so the public is aware given that his testimony would be sealed. Matt and Foggy celebrate after the hearing, with Foggy hinting that he would like to work with Matt once again. However, Fisk controls the jury, and so the hearing has no effect. Nadeem is convinced that Fisk cannot be stopped and returns to his home. Fisk decides it would be better not to kill Nadeem now that he is a public figure, but Vanessa convinces him otherwise. They send Dex, who kills Nadeem.
39	13	"A New Napkin"	Sam Miller	Erik Oleson	October19,2018
With Foggy's plan foiled, Matt returns to his and intends to kill Fisk. He kidnaps and interrogates Manning, learning that Vanessa ordered Nadeem's death and Fisk ordered Julie's. Foggy meets with Nadeem's wife, Seema, to whom he sent a video message that serves as his dying declaration, detailing all of Fisk's crimes. Matt tells Dex about Julie's death, which Dex investigates and finds her body. Fisk and Vanessa get married at the hotel, but their reception is interrupted when Karen distributes Nadeem's video on social media, followed by the arrival of Dex, who attacks Fisk and Vanessa. Matt soon joins the fight. Fisk defeats Dex, leaving him paralyzed, while Matt overpowers and beats Fisk but chooses to spare his life. Fisk agrees to return to prison and leave Karen and Foggy alone if Matt does not reveal Vanessa's involvement in Nadeem's death. With Fisk arrested, a funeral is held for Lantom. Foggy suggests to Matt and Karen that they all start working together again. Dex later goes through experimental surgery to fix his spine.
Close ▲
