https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agent_Carter_(TV_series)

Agent Carter (TV series)
2015–2016 Marvel Television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Agent Carter (season 1)
Agent Carter (film)
Now is Not the End
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Agent Carter (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Marvel's Agent Carter, or simply Agent Carter, is an American television series created by Christopher Markus & Stephen McFeely for ABC, based on the Marvel Comics character Peggy Carter following her roles in the 2011 film Captain America: The First Avenger and the 2013 Marvel One-Shot short film of Agent Carter. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and shares continuity with the franchise's films and other television series. The series was produced by ABC Studios, Marvel Television, and Fazekas & Butters, with Tara Butters, Michele Fazekas, and Chris Dingess serving as showrunners.

Quick facts: Agent Carter, Genre, Created by, Based on, St... ▼
Agent Carter
Agent Carter TV series intertitle and logo
Genre
Created by	Christopher Markus
Stephen McFeely
Based on
Starring
Composer	Christopher Lennertz
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	2
No. of episodes	18
Production
Executive producers
Alan Fine
Stan Lee
Joe Quesada
Kevin Feige
Louis D'Esposito
Jeph Loeb
Christopher Markus
Stephen McFeely
Chris Dingess
Michele Fazekas
Tara Butters
Jim Chory
Producer	Sara E. White
Production location	Los Angeles, California
Cinematography
Gabriel Beristain (season 1)
Edward J. Pei (season 2)
Editors
Mark Hartzell
Chris Peppe
Christopher Cooke
Troy Takaki
David Siegel
Andrew Doerfer
Running time	41–43 minutes
Production companies
ABC Studios
Marvel Television
Fazekas & Butters
Original release
Network	ABC
Release	January 6, 2015–
March 1, 2016
Related
Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
Close ▲
Hayley Atwell reprises her role of Peggy Carter from the film series and One-Shot, with James D'Arcy, Chad Michael Murray, and Enver Gjokaj also starring; they are joined by Shea Whigham for the first season. In the series, Carter must balance life as a secret agent with that of a single woman in 1940s America. Development on a series inspired by the short film had begun by September 2013, with Atwell's involvement confirmed in January 2014. That May, ABC ordered the show straight to series. Agent Carter introduces the origins of several characters and story lines from MCU films, while other characters from the films also appear.

The first season, consisting of eight episodes, originally aired from January 6 to February 24, 2015, while the second season, consisting of 10 episodes, originally aired from January 19 to March 1, 2016. Both seasons aired during mid-season breaks of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Despite a positive critical response, viewership fell, and on May 12, 2016, ABC cancelled Agent Carter.

Premise
The first season takes place in 1946, with Peggy Carter having to balance the routine office work she does for the Strategic Scientific Reserve (SSR) in New York City with secretly assisting Howard Stark, who finds himself framed for supplying deadly weapons to enemies of the United States. Carter is assisted by Stark's butler, Edwin Jarvis, to find those responsible and dispose of the weapons. In the second season, Carter moves from New York City to Los Angeles to deal with the threats of the new Atomic Age by the Council of Nine in the aftermath of World War II, gaining new friends, a new home, and a potential new love interest.

Cast and characters
Main article: List of Agent Carter characters
Hayley Atwell as Peggy Carter:
An SSR agent initially stuck doing administrative work. Butters said Carter's "superpower is the fact that other people underestimate her. And she often uses that to her advantage". On the influence that the apparent death of Steve Rogers has on Carter, Atwell explained that "he was the greatest person she ever knew—even before he took the serum and became Captain America. She knew his character and she saw a kindred spirit in him. So I think she's grieving the loss of him but she's also determined to make sure that his work wasn't in vain. That gives her a tremendous amount of determination to carry on despite the obstacles that she comes across." Gabriella Graves portrays a young Carter.
James D'Arcy as Edwin Jarvis:
Howard Stark's butler and ally to Carter, who will eventually be a tutor to Tony Stark and inspire his J.A.R.V.I.S. artificial intelligence. Atwell referred to Carter's relationship with Jarvis as the series' "comic relief", and said "she needs someone who is in contact with Howard to help kind of run this mission[, and] they have this very witty banter back and forth". Fazekas explained that some of the character's persona "has come from the comics and some of it we've developed ourselves. Some of it is influenced by James D'Arcy himself and his strengths." D'Arcy was initially nervous about portraying Jarvis's comedic side, given his history of "predominantly play[ing] psychopaths". He did not study Paul Bettany's performance as J.A.R.V.I.S. when approaching the character.
Chad Michael Murray as Jack Thompson:
A war veteran and agent with the SSR, described as chauvinistic and "chest-puffing". Murray compared the character to Indiana Jones, and stated that "he's working his way up to become the head of the SSR. His goal in life is to just be great at his job. So he has a large chip on his shoulder, which gives him an attitude." Murray also noted that, unlike his character on One Tree Hill, Thompson does not serve as the "moral compass", which meant that he would not be "confined to a box" and would instead be allowed to "really play things up and do what's unexpected". For the second season, Thompson is made chief of the East Coast SSR office.
Enver Gjokaj as Daniel Sousa:
A war veteran who is an agent with the SSR and experiences prejudice due to his injured leg. "He accepts his injury, he accepts his compromised status in society ... Peggy says, 'Forget this. I'm Peggy Carter. I'm going to do something else.' I think that's the difference between the two of them." Considering a potentially romantic relationship between Sousa and Carter, Gjokaj said, "I think there's definitely a situation where...if she hadn't dated Captain America, he might ask her out for a drink. It's like if your new girlfriend dated Ryan Gosling. It's going to make you sweat a bit." For the second season, Sousa is made chief of the West Coast SSR office.
Shea Whigham as Roger Dooley:
The SSR chief who oversees Agents Carter, Thompson, and Sousa until he dies to save his fellow SSR agents at the end of season one. Whigham believes that, unlike many of the other agents, Dooley does respect Carter, saying, "I think he likes her. I think he cares deeply. I'm not sure that he can always show that ... these are things that keep him up at night, as well as the other boys, when I send them out on missions." The character was always intended to die during the first season's penultimate episode to help build stakes for the series given that "everyone knows Peggy lives", so from the beginning, Whigham was only hired for the seven required episodes.
Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1	8	January6,2015	February24,2015
2	10	January19,2016	March1,2016
Season 1 (2015)
Main article: Agent Carter (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"Now is Not the End"	Louis D'Esposito	Christopher Markus & Stephen McFeely	January6,2015	6.91
2	2	"Bridge and Tunnel"	Joseph V. Russo	Eric Pearson	January6,2015	6.91
3	3	"Time and Tide"	Scott Winant	Andi Bushell	January13,2015	5.10
4	4	"The Blitzkrieg Button"	Stephen Cragg	Brant Englestein	January27,2015	4.63
5	5	"The Iron Ceiling"	Peter Leto	Jose Molina	February3,2015	4.20
6	6	"A Sin to Err"	Stephen Williams	Lindsey Allen	February10,2015	4.25
7	7	"Snafu"	Vincent Misiano	Chris Dingess	February17,2015	4.15
8	8	"Valediction"	Christopher Misiano	Michele Fazekas & Tara Butters	February24,2015	4.02
Close ▲
Season 2 (2016)
Main article: Agent Carter (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
9	1	"The Lady in the Lake"	Lawrence Trilling	Brant Englestein	January19,2016	3.18
10	2	"A View in the Dark"	Lawrence Trilling	Eric Pearson & Lindsey Allen	January19,2016	3.18
11	3	"Better Angels"	David Platt	Jose Molina	January26,2016	2.90
12	4	"Smoke & Mirrors"	David Platt	Sue Chung	February2,2016	2.77
13	5	"The Atomic Job"	Craig Zisk	Lindsey Allen	February9,2016	2.66
14	6	"Life of the Party"	Craig Zisk	Eric Pearson	February16,2016	2.39
15	7	"Monsters"	Metin Hüseyin	Brandon Easton	February16,2016	2.39
16	8	"The Edge of Mystery"	Metin Hüseyin	Brant Englestein	February23,2016	2.50
17	9	"A Little Song and Dance"	Jennifer Getzinger	Story by: Michele Fazekas & Tara Butters
Teleplay by: Chris Dingess	February23,2016	2.50
18	10	"Hollywood Ending"	Jennifer Getzinger	Story by: Chris Dingess
Teleplay by: Michele Fazekas & Tara Butters	March1,2016	2.35
Close ▲
Production
See also: Production of season 1 and season 2
Development
A potential Agent Carter series was initially brought up in July 2013 by Louis D'Esposito, after a screening of his Agent Carter Marvel One-Shot at San Diego Comic-Con. By September, Marvel Television was developing a series inspired by the short film, featuring Peggy Carter, and was in search of a writer for the series. In January 2014, ABC Entertainment Group president Paul Lee confirmed that the show was in development, and revealed that Tara Butters and Michele Fazekas would act as the series' showrunners. Chris Dingess also serves as a showrunner. In March 2014, Christopher Markus & Stephen McFeely, writers of the Captain America films, stated that they envisioned the series, which had not yet been greenlit, as a limited series of approximately 13 episodes. By April 2014, there were indications that the series would be ordered straight to series, bypassing a pilot order, and would air between the late 2014 and early 2015 portions of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., if that series got a second season renewal. On May 8, 2014, ABC officially ordered the series for eight episodes, with executive producers Butters, Fazekas, Markus, McFeely, Dingess, Kevin Feige, Louis D'Esposito, Alan Fine, Joe Quesada, Stan Lee, and Jeph Loeb. The series was renewed for a second season on May 7, 2015, of 10 episodes.

Writing
It's a really rich period in history, where this giant opposition we had going for 10 years with the Nazis is gone, and we're not completely positive what the rules are anymore. Who gets the scientists? Who gets the secrets? It's all on the table. Everyone developed these skills in World War II. People became spies, people became murderers. And suddenly the war was over, and they came back, and it's like, 'Wow, I know how to do some shit. Now, what do I do with this?' It's nice to play with that assortment of characters. An office, basically full of people who just came back from the war. There's no telling what any of them experienced last year.

—Co-creator Christopher Markus on exploring the dynamic of 1940s characters.

Markus and McFeely stated in March 2014 that the series would be set in 1946 initially, occurring in the middle of the timeline established in the One-Shot, and would focus on one case for Carter. Additional seasons would then advance a year and examine a new case. Despite working on Captain America: Civil War at the same time, Markus and McFeely remained involved with the series after writing the first script. When the showrunners joined the series, they went on a "mini-camp" with Markus and McFeely to develop the series from a pilot script written by the pair. They looked to several different influences outside of Marvel in developing the series, including Raiders of the Lost Ark, L.A. Confidential, and the works of author James Ellroy. Elaborating on deviating from the comics, Fazekas said, for example, "if we're using a minor character or a bad guy from an old comic book, we don't have to adhere to what that character was in that comic book from 1945. Because there are so many different iterations of a specific character, you can't be true to every single one." ABC asked the producers to not have the series follow a "Gadget of the Week or Bad Guy of the Week" model, and instead focus on telling the story of Carter balancing her personal and professional lives. Fazekas called this "such a nice change" from previous television experience, with the group feeling free to drop whole story ideas in favor of focusing on the series' central storyline.

On the time periods the series could potentially explore following the first season given Carter's role in Captain America: The Winter Soldier, Atwell said, "I think the great thing about the fact that I've already played her at the end of her life means that we know ... [Now] we have an opportunity, if the show does go into second and third and fourth and fifth [seasons], we know that we can explore all of these aspects of her character because we know she lives such a long life and she's had a fulfilled life. I think what's going to start happening in Season 1 is seeds are going to be planted as to what happens in her personal life—and yet it's still open to the possibility of new men coming into her life, deepening relationships with the men that we discover in Season 1. Obviously, the era is 1946 but in the second, third, fourth, fifth season—if it goes onto that—we can explore different time periods. We can explore the late forties, the early fifties, the sixties, the seventies, the eighties, up until present day, so it's very exciting because of that." However, Butters clarified that future seasons would likely stay in the same time period, possibly changing location to a place like Hollywood or Europe, to remain in a pre-S.H.I.E.L.D. setting and avoid competing with Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. This was the case with the second season, which moved the series to 1947 Los Angeles.

Casting
Atwell, who portrayed Carter in Captain America: The First Avenger, Captain America: The Winter Soldier, and the Agent Carter short film, expressed interest in returning as the character in October 2013, before Lee confirmed her involvement in January 2014. That August, Chad Michael Murray and Enver Gjokaj were cast as SSR agents Jack Thompson and Daniel Sousa, respectively, while James D'Arcy was cast the next month as Edwin Jarvis, the character who would eventually inspire the artificial intelligence J.A.R.V.I.S. from the MCU films. Shea Whigham was also cast, as SSR chief Roger Dooley. Atwell, D'Arcy, Gjokaj, and Murray returned for the second season.

Design
Costumes
The costume designer for the series was Giovanna Ottobre-Melton, who felt comfortable with the series' period setting after spending months researching American styles in the 1940s for the 2013 television series Mob City. She noted that "many comic books were all blended by the color, style, and fabrics" from 1940s New York. Due to the large amount of action in the series, fabrics "with the feel and texture of the 1940s" had to be sourced in large quantities, to allow for the creation of four, five, or more of each costume. Ottobre-Melton's process "for each episode, [is to] read the script first, and then search for historic photos that relate to what the episode is about. Afterwards I chose the fabrics, and then begin to design the outfits."

Props
When creating the gadgets for the series, the writers noted the need to combine the period setting with the influence of Howard Stark, who opens the door to "things that are fantastic for the time period". They worked closely with the props department to develop technology that appears "both retro and futuristic at the same time", with Fazekas explaining that the goal was to avoid a science fiction look, so the fantastical aspects were reserved solely for function while the aesthetic was kept within the realms of that time period.

Filming
Filming for the series took place in Los Angeles, with the story's location shifting from New York City to Los Angeles with the second season to capitalize on this. Gabriel Beristain, cinematographer for the One-Shot and the first season of the series, used a combination of modern digital technology and traditional analog techniques to replicate the feel of classic films that are set in the 1940s, but to also have the convenience and consistency of modern technology, such as using the Arri Alexa digital camera, along with Leica Camera lenses and silk-stocking diffusion nets. Edward J. Pei took over as cinematographer for the second season. Stunt coordinator Casey O'Neill, who also worked on the One-Shot and Captain America: The Winter Soldier, incorporated the specific fighting styles of the characters, such as the more "CIA-trained" fighting of Carter or the more acrobatic, "Black Widow"-inspired style of antagonist Dottie Underwood.

Visual effects
Sheena Duggal served as visual effect supervisor, returning in the same capacity from the Agent Carter One-Shot, with the visual effects for the series created by Industrial Light & Magic (ILM), Base FX, and later DNeg TV. Duggal worked closest with ILM, who coordinated with Base and DNeg to ensure a "seamless workflow". The majority of the series' visual effects work focuses on set extensions to depict the period setting, as well as the more fantastical aspects such as Howard Stark's inventions, or Zero Matter and Jason Wilkes' intangibility in the second season.

Music
In June 2014, Christopher Lennertz, who composed the music for the Agent Carter One-Shot, talked about potentially working on the series, saying, D'Esposito "told me last summer at Comic-Con that there was a possibility this was going to become a series. And he said that if he was going to be involved, he wanted me to be involved, too." In September 2014, Lennertz officially signed on to compose for the series. Lennertz combined all the different style elements of the show in the music, such as mixing jazz and period elements, with orchestra and electronic elements. Lennertz said, the music is "always done from a sense of being sort of in control and savvy and clever, rather than just being strong or just having a superpower or sort of being so much further along than anybody else physically. Part of it was just trying to make it that she's just smarter than everybody else. She's got such command over so many of these situations, and that was the most important thing was to give her that personality." A soundtrack album for the first season was released on iTunes on December 11, 2015, and the single "Whatcha Gonna Do (It's Up to You)" from the second season was released on March 18, 2016.

Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
We work really closely with Eric Carroll in Marvel Studios. He's sort of the guy who tells us, "Well, you can't really do this to that thing, because that's going to step on this project. But what if you do this?" They're really generous with that world.

—Fazekas on working in with MCU canon

Because Carter originated from the films, Fazekas said Marvel Studios co-presidents Feige and D'Esposito were very invested in the production of the series and called them "really collaborative and very generous with their world". Markus, talking about the series' place in the greater architecture of the MCU, later said, "you really only need to drop the tiniest bit of hint and its connected. You don't have to go, 'Howard Stark's wearing the same pants that Tony wears!' ... Everything is enhanced just by the knowledge that its all connected." Butters said, "We always want to feel like you see us as a piece of [the MCU]. But because of our time period, we kind of are on our own a little bit."

In July 2014, Fazekas explained the series' relationship with the One-Shot by saying, "The short really is the basis for the series. [Carter]'s working at SSR, post-war...If you think of the short as sort of the end of the series, the series would be leading up to that moment where she gets assigned to S.H.I.E.L.D." Markus reiterated this in January 2015, but acknowledged that it would be harder to keep continuity with the short the longer they made the series. The first season introduces the origins of the Black Widow and Winter Soldier programs, which both appear in several MCU films, while the second season shows the discovery of the Darkforce (known as Zero Matter in the series), which previously appeared in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and has ties to the Marvel characters Doctor Strange and Cloak.

Release
Broadcast
Agent Carter aired on ABC in the United States, in 720p high definition and 5.1 surround sound. It also aired on CTV in Canada, and TV2 in New Zealand. In October 2014, Channel 4, the channel that airs Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. in the United Kingdom, stated that they did not "have any current plans [to air] Agent Carter". In June 2015, FOX UK purchased the broadcast rights for the United Kingdom, with the series premiering on July 12, 2015. In February 2016, the series was announced to air on 7flix in Australia.

Home media
Table info: Season, DVD and Blu-ray release dates, Region... ▼
Season	DVD and Blu-ray release dates
Region 1	Region 2	Region 4
1	September 18, 2015	November 30, 2015	December 7, 2016
2	TBA	December 5, 2016	March 1, 2017
Close ▲
The complete first season became available on Blu-ray and DVD on September 18, 2015, as an Amazon exclusive. On November 29, 2017, Hulu acquired the exclusive streaming rights to the series. Both seasons of Agent Carter were made available on Disney+ at launch, on November 12, 2019.

Reception
Ratings
Table info: Season, Timeslot (ET), Episodes, First aired,... ▼
Season	Timeslot (ET)	Episodes	First aired	Last aired	TV season	Viewership
rank	Avg. viewers
(millions)	18–49
rank	Avg. 18–49
rating
Date	Viewers
(millions)	Date	Viewers
(millions)
1	Tuesday 9:00 pm	8	January 6, 2015	6.91	February 24, 2015	4.02	2014–15	74	7.14	46	2.3
2	10	January 19, 2016	3.18	March 1, 2016	2.35	2015–16	109	4.37	88	1.4
Close ▲
Maureen Ryan of Variety blamed both seasons' low viewership on "the questionable scheduling decisions" made by then ABC president Paul Lee, saying that the series "has received lackluster promotion, especially [for its second season]. The botched rollout of season two included a changed premiere date and episodes that were difficult to access in advance on Marvel's dreadful media site. Capping the mishandling is the fact that the full first season was only made available on ABC.com days before season two began, which frustrated viewers who might have wanted to jump on board in advance."

Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 96% approval rating with an average rating of 7.9/10 based on 50 reviews for the first season. The website's consensus reads, "Focusing on Peggy Carter as a person first and an action hero second makes Marvel's Agent Carter a winning, stylish drama with bursts of excitement and an undercurrent of cheeky fun". The second season scored a 76% approval rating with an average score of 8/10 based on 21 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "A move from New York to Hollywood gives Agent Carter new territory to explore, as the series continues to search for a storyline as dynamic as its heroine". Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 72 out of 100 based on 27 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews" for the series overall.

Accolades
Table info: Award, Year, Category, Recipient(s), Result... ▼
AWARD	YEAR	CATEGORY	RECIPIENT(S)	RESULT	REF.
Hollywood Post Alliance Awards	2015	Outstanding Visual Effects – Television (Under 13 Episodes)	Sheena Duggal, Richard Bluff, Jay Mehta, Chad Taylor, and Cody Gramstad for "Now is Not the End"	Nominated
Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists Guild Awards	2016	Television and New Media Series – Best Period and/or Character Hair Styling	Agent Carter	Nominated
Saturn Awards	2015	Best Superhero Adaptation Television Series	Agent Carter	Nominated
Best Actress in a Television Series	Hayley Atwell	Nominated
Best Guest Performance in a Television Series	Dominic Cooper	Nominated
2016	Best Superhero Adaptation Television Series	Agent Carter	Nominated
Visual Effects Society Awards	2016	Outstanding Supporting Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	"Now is Not the End"	Nominated
Close ▲
Cancellation
Arguing for the renewal of the series for a third season following its low viewership, Ryan said that "letting the show die would be a serious mistake, for the network and for the bigger Disney-ABC conglomerate...These days, entertainment properties have to be viewed not just through the lens of their ratings (admittedly weak for Agent Carter). They have to be evaluated within the context of the overall value they bring to any entertainment colossus, and what Agent Carter adds to Disney-ABC is simply too valuable to give up ... [bringing] something different to the company's superhero portfolio." She suggested if ABC did not renew the series for broadcast, that it should explore other opportunities, such as debuting on its online Watch ABC app, or being sold to Netflix, where "fans of super-heroic storytelling already flock to" and Agent Carter's "status as a period piece—which may have harmed it on broadcast—could be a real draw for Netflix viewers". Ryan also felt Marvel "could copy what CBS is doing with Star Trek" by creating a subscription service for a monthly fee, where consumers could access Marvel's films and televisions shows "as well as premium exclusives like a third season of Agent Carter". Ryan concluded, "A third Agent Carter season could help solidify Marvel's standing not just with female fans, but with everyone who appreciates excellent and adventurous storytelling."

In March 2016, Fazekas said the producers felt "bad" about the chances for a third season due to the series' low viewership, adding she "would love to see it live on, even if it's in some other form, digital or whatever. I doubt that there's a Netflix play for it." She also added that ABC wanted some sort of conclusion to the series, and so the writers and producers would find a way to conclude the lingering plot threads in some form if the series was not renewed. On May 12, 2016, ABC canceled the series.

Loeb stated in August 2016 that he did not understand the cancellation, as "there were no conversations" regarding the series' future between ABC and Marvel, with the latter simply receiving a call from ABC saying Agent Carter was canceled. He added that since the networks decide what content they would like from Marvel Television, "if someone wants to call and say, 'We want a two-hour Agent Carter [film special] for May 2017,' boom. We'll put together the greatest Agent Carter movie we can." Atwell added that she was also not part of the conversation to cancel the series and called it "a network political thing" since ABC wanted her to headline the more "mainstream" drama Conviction "to get their ratings up" instead of staying on Agent Carter, which Atwell felt had gained a "cult following". After speculation regarding a revival for the series by Netflix, chief content officer Ted Sarandos stated the streaming service passed on reviving Agent Carter because it is "looking for truly original brands to own and in that Marvel space we already have" original Marvel series. He also added that due to existing international broadcasting "deal complexities" for the series, Netflix would not have been able to air Agent Carter globally, as "some of those output partners still had it on the air, so they would argue its covered by their output [deals]. Unfortunately, it was a business decision more than a creative one."

When the series was canceled shortly after the release of Captain America: Civil War, in which Carter dies, Meagan Damore of Comic Book Resources felt that "for all intents and purposes" Carter had "effectively been phased out of the Marvel Cinematic Universe", and the universe had subsequently lost "a wonderful role model and...inspiration" to fans of the character and series. Damore lamented the fact that the second season's cliffhanger ending had been left unresolved, and that viewers would never get the chance to see Carter's "happy ending", despite knowing she gets one, leaving the character's "fate unfulfilled, languishing in the obscurity of 'what could have beens'". She also noted that Marvel had now lost "the opportunity to show several prominent MCU events, not the least of which is the founding of S.H.I.E.L.D.", and added that despite making "leaps and bounds for women in the MCU, the same [could not] be said for people of color", wishing the series had addressed Asian American women like Hazel Ying Lee, one of 38 Women Airforce Service Pilots who died in the line of duty, or Black women like Harriet Ida Pickens and Frances Wills, the first two Black members of the United States Naval Reserve.

Future
Suggested spin-off podcast
In March 2015, Butters revealed that there had been discussions with Thrilling Adventure Hour co-creator Ben Blacker about turning the fictional Captain America Adventure Program radio show from the first season into a real podcast. Butters said these well-received segments had not been part of their original pitch to Marvel, and that a second season renewal for the series would help the podcast's chances. She said the potential episodes would be "little fifteen-minute storylines".

Planned third season
Before the cancellation, Atwell said on the series' future, "We think that there could be more to come....the [second season] finale doesn't suggest that that's it and they live happily ever after; that's the end. We know that's not the case. They've done it in a very clever way which wraps up and that gives the audience a very satisfying conclusion but they're not quite finishing it". Fazekas explained that an early idea from Markus and McFeely was to set the third season in London, but "you can put the show anywhere, because it's spies. [The location is] all going to be determined by what story we want to tell. I loved [Los Angeles]. I loved how it looked, I loved how it looked on Peggy. We would be very happy to do another L.A. season, but we're not married to it." Fazekas added that seeds for a third season had been planted throughout the second, and that the end of the second season—with someone shooting Thompson and taking the M. Carter file—was "very much tied to a third season arc", with the shooter and their reasoning already determined. Atwell said the third season would have gone "further back into [Carter's] past" while having "a possible kind of twist... into something to do with [her] family". She also added that more insight would have been provided on Carter's brother, Michael. Writer Jose Molina expanded on this in July 2018, stating that the season would have focused on the investigation of the assassination attempt on Thompson, along with the revelation that Michael was still alive and involved in some "very nefarious, super-villainous shenanigans".

Feature films and other television series
D'Arcy went on to reprise his role as Jarvis in the MCU film Avengers: Endgame (2019), marking the first time a character introduced in an MCU television series appears in an MCU film. Additionally, Gjokaj reprises his role as Sousa in the seventh season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. The episode "Alien Commies from the Future!" is set in 1955, eight years after the events of Agent Carter season two, and sees Sousa as the head of the S.H.I.E.L.D.-run Area 51 base. In "Out of the Past", the S.H.I.E.L.D. team fakes Sousa's death, allowing him to join the team as they travel to future time periods.

Potential revival
While promoting Endgame, Markus and McFeely were asked about the potential for Agent Carter to be revived by Disney's new streaming service Disney+. McFeely acknowledged that the series' fanbase was "really dedicated", but was unsure if there was enough support to justify the cost of making the series and its period setting.

References
External links
Agent Carter
More

Agent Carter (season 1)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Peggy Carter
Marvel One-Shots
Agent Carter (TV series)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Agent Carter (season 1)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The first season of the American television series Agent Carter, which is inspired by the film Captain America: The First Avenger and the Marvel One-Shot short film of the same name, features the character Peggy Carter, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, as she must balance doing administrative work and going on secret missions for Howard Stark while trying to navigate life as a single woman in 1940s America. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films of the franchise, and was produced by ABC Studios, Marvel Television, and F&B Fazekas & Butters. Tara Butters, Michele Fazekas, and Chris Dingess served as showrunners.

Quick facts: Agent Carter, Starring, Country of origin, No... ▼
Close ▲
Hayley Atwell reprises her role from the film series and One-Shot as Carter, with James D'Arcy, Chad Michael Murray, Enver Gjokaj, and Shea Whigham also starring. In May 2014, ABC bypassed a pilot, ordering a show based on the One-Shot straight to series for an eight-episode season. Filming took place in Los Angeles from September 2014 to January 2015, and Industrial Light & Magic provided visual effects. The season introduces the origins of several characters and storylines from MCU films, while other characters from the films and Marvel One-Shots also appear.

The season, which aired on ABC from January 6 to February 24, 2015, over 8 episodes, aired during the season two mid-season break of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Despite steadily dropping viewership, critical response to Agent Carter was positive, with much praise going to Atwell's performance, the series' tone and setting, and its relative separation from the rest of the MCU. The series was renewed for a second season on May 7, 2015.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"Now is Not the End"	Louis D'Esposito	Christopher Markus & Stephen McFeely	January6,2015	6.91
In 1946, Peggy Carter, mourning the apparent death of Steve Rogers, returns to work for the Strategic Scientific Reserve (SSR) in New York City following the end of World War II. The SSR investigates industrialist Howard Stark for apparently selling weapons to enemies of the United States. Stark secretly contacts Carter, and asks her to help him clear his name. Before he leaves the country, he tells her about his formula for molecular nitramene that is going to be sold at a club. Infiltrating the club in disguise, Carter learns that the formula has been weaponized. She shows one such nitramene bomb to Stark Industries scientist Anton Vanko, who deduces that it came from a Roxxon Oil refinery. Carter, along with Stark's butler Edwin Jarvis, investigates the refinery, and encounters Leet Brannis, who apparently works for an organization called Leviathan, and escapes with a truck full of the nitramene weapons. Before leaving, Brannis drops a nitramene bomb, and as Carter and Jarvis escape, it destroys the entire building.
2	2	"Bridge and Tunnel"	Joseph V. Russo	Eric Pearson	January6,2015	6.91
Carter goes undercover again to search for the truck with the weapons, and finds the address of the truck's official driver. The SSR agents interrogate Miles Van Ert, the Roxxon scientist who made the weapons, and learn of the address as well. Carter and Jarvis arrive at the house first, and find Brannis, who they force to go with them. The three are attacked by Sasha Demidov, who works for Leviathan, an organization that it now seems Brannis has betrayed. Carter fights Demidov, but he still manages to mortally wound Brannis. Jumping to safety with Carter and Brannis, Jarvis forces the truck to careen off a cliff with Demidov, and the weapons inside implode. Before he dies, Brannis draws a symbol in the dirt. SSR agents Roger Dooley, Jack Thompson, and Daniel Sousa later arrive to find Brannis's body, a woman's footprints, and a hotel key (belonging to Demidov). Meanwhile, Agent Ray Krzeminski, sifting through the Roxxon refinery remains, finds the license plate for Stark's car that Jarvis and Carter used to get away.
3	3	"Time and Tide"	Scott Winant	Andi Bushell	January13,2015	5.10
Dooley and Krzeminski investigate Demidov's hotel room, and discover a typewriter. Thompson and Sousa take Jarvis in for interrogation, and the former threatens him with revealing an old treason charge to the immigration office. Carter, feigning ignorance, botches the interrogation to get Jarvis out, and receives a stern reprimand from Dooley. Carter and Jarvis then follow the sewer system below Stark's vault, through which Brannis took the stolen technology, to the docks, where they find the weapons on board The Heartbreak (a ship bearing Brannis' symbol). Jarvis anonymously gives the SSR their location, while Carter fights off a guard who had been working with Brannis. Carter and Jarvis are forced to leave him behind as the SSR arrives. While being transported back to SSR headquarters by Krzeminski, the guard is about to identify Carter as the woman interfering with the Stark investigation, when an unidentified assassin kills them both.
4	4	"The Blitzkrieg Button"	Stephen Cragg	Brant Englestein	January27,2015	4.63
After learning that Brannis and Demidov were supposed to have died during the Battle of Finow, Dooley travels to Germany to speak with Ernst Mueller, the Nazi colonel who led the opposing forces, and though he doesn't learn how Brannis and Demidov survived, Dooley does discover that their Soviet forces were seemingly massacred before the Nazis even arrived. With Carter's only job to collect lunch orders, she meets up with Stark, who has secretly returned in the wake of his technology's discovery. Looking at photographs Carter takes of the weapons, he identifies one of them as the Blitzkrieg Button, which he claims can cause a permanent blackout throughout the city. However, a suspicious Carter opens the device to find a vial of Rogers' blood. Angry at Stark for lying to her, she hides the vial. Otto Mink, the criminal who smuggled Stark into New York, but was scammed out of his money by Carter and Jarvis, follows Carter back to her apartment, but he is killed by her new neighbor, Dottie Underwood.
5	5	"The Iron Ceiling"	Peter Leto	Jose Molina	February3,2015	4.20
Carter decrypts an encoded message, received from Leviathan through Demidov's typewriter, for the SSR, learning that Stark will be selling weapons to Leviathan at a Soviet military complex. Thompson is sent to stop the sale and apprehend Stark, and is forced to take Carter when she enlists the help of her war comrades, the Howling Commandos. They discover that young girls are trained at the complex to infiltrate the US as sleeper agents, and realize that they have walked into a trap when one girl kills the Commando Junior Juniper. Soviet soldiers attack the team and Thompson freezes under fire, but Carter ensures that they escape, along with imprisoned psychiatrist Dr. Ivchenko. Meanwhile, Underwood, who is actually a sleeper agent trained at that complex, discovers the photos of Stark's weapons in SSR custody when searching Carter's apartment, while Sousa realizes that Carter is the woman who has been interfering with the SSR's investigation.
6	6	"A Sin to Err"	Stephen Williams	Lindsey Allen	February10,2015	4.25
Carter and Jarvis investigate the women that Stark has been involved with over the last six months, believing that a female Leviathan operative may have been used against Stark and to kill Krzeminski, but their search is unsuccessful. Sousa reveals to Dooley that Carter is an apparent traitor, and all agents are tasked with tracking her down. They eventually corner her and Jarvis, but Carter fights them off. During the commotion, Dr. Ivchenko, who is actually working for Leviathan, hypnotizes Agent Yauch, who reveals that only Dooley can access Stark's weapons. Yauch shows Ivchenko how to get out of the SSR, before Ivchenko forces him to commit suicide. Carter retrieves Rogers' blood from her apartment. As she tries to escape the building, she is knocked out by Underwood, but not before realizing that Underwood is the Leviathan operative. Underwood is about to kill Carter when Thompson and Sousa arrive. She feigns ignorance, and the agents arrest Carter.
7	7	"Snafu"	Vincent Misiano	Chris Dingess	February17,2015	4.15
As Carter is resisting interrogation at the SSR, Jarvis appears with a fake signed confession from Stark, promising surrender if Carter is released. Carter sees Ivchenko communicating in Morse code with Underwood, and reveals the truth about her own investigation to her colleagues to gain their trust. Ivchenko hypnotizes Dooley and has him steal one of Stark's weapons from the SSR's labs: a gas cylinder that Underwood and Ivchenko activate in a crowded cinema before leaving and locking the door behind them. The agents find Dooley wearing a Stark experimental vest given to him by Ivchenko, which Jarvis explains will explode with no way to deactivate it. Dooley jumps out a window moments before the device detonates, killing him but saving the others. The gas in the cinema makes many in the audience become maniacal and attack each other violently, and when an usher arrives soon after, the entire audience is dead.
8	8	"Valediction"	Christopher Misiano	Michele Fazekas & Tara Butters	February24,2015	4.02
The SSR discovers the gas cylinder in the cinema and realize that Ivchenko possibly plans to turn all of New York on itself. Stark returns and explains that he had developed the gas, named Midnight Oil, to give American soldiers extra stamina during war, but it caused psychosis and lead to them killing each other. During World War II, the American military stole Midnight Oil and used it on the Soviets at Finow. Stark believes that Ivchenko – real name Johann Fennhoff – blames Stark for the ensuing massacre, and allows the SSR to use him as bait to draw Leviathan out. This plan goes awry when Underwood distracts the agents while Fennhoff kidnaps Stark, and uses hypnosis to convince him to drop the gas on Times Square. At Stark's secret plane hangar, Sousa apprehends Fennhoff while Carter defeats Underwood (who escapes) and convinces Stark not to drop the gas on the city. Carter later discards Rogers' blood in the East River, finally moving on with her life, while Fennhoff is imprisoned with the scheming Arnim Zola.
Close ▲
Production
Development
By September 2013, Marvel Television was developing a series inspired by the Agent Carter One-Shot short film, featuring the Marvel Comics character Peggy Carter. On May 8, 2014, ABC officially ordered the series, bypassing a pilot order, and later confirmed that Agent Carter would air between the 2014 finale and 2015 premiere of the second season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., beginning January 6, 2015. Later in May, star Hayley Atwell stated that the season would consist of eight episodes. Executive producers for the season include Tara Butters, Michelle Fazekas, Christopher Markus, Stephen McFeely, Chris Dingess, Kevin Feige, Louis D'Esposito, Alan Fine, Joe Quesada, Stan Lee, and Jeph Loeb. Butters, Fazekas, and Dingess serve as showrunners on the season.

Writing
Markus & McFeely, writers on the Captain America films, had written a script for the first episode by January 2014. They stated in March that the series would be set in 1946, occurring in the middle of the timeline established in the One-Shot. In July, Butters and Fazekas revealed that writing for the rest of the season would begin in August 2014.

In July 2014, Fazekas stated that it was "fabulous from a writing perspective" to have an eight episode order, as "you can plan it and know where you're heading... They're all their own stories and they all have their own drive, but it's sort of building toward a big thing at the end of the eight episodes." Elaborating on this, Atwell said, "it's incredibly tight, the script, which is great. It's fast moving and fast paced but luckily because it's not stretched out of 22 episodes, nothing is diluted. Every line is vital to not only moving the story and the action [along] but also developing the characters." The season's overarching storyline revolves around the chemical weapon Midnight Oil, which is based on the Madbomb of the Captain America comics. The Madbomb was originally considered for use in Captain America: Civil War, before negotiations with actors to adapt the "Civil War" storyline were completed. Also in July, it was revealed that Carter's husband would be explored in the series. However, he was ultimately not explored much in the first season, with McFeely saying, "This was the season where she says goodbye to Steve [Rogers]... In a second season, she could be freer to have those conversations about a life after him."

Speaking about the season's use of 1940s terminology, Fazekas stated that terms like "broad" and "dame" were preferably avoided, while research was done to ensure terms that were used in the series were actually in use during that time, with Fazekas giving the example, "you know what didn't exist in 1946? Smart ass. I looked up the etymology on that, didn't exist in 1946. Turns out it was a term that came around in the 60s. But for instance, I wrote a line that said, "Oh I think someone's yanking your chain." And I had to look it up, did that exist in 1946? And actually it did; it's a mining term that exists from a long time ago. That's our research that we do." Research was also done on radio shows of the time to ensure realism when creating the fictional Captain America Adventure Program, with details discovered and replicated on the series including the use of lobsters and ham to create sound effects for the radio show. The Griffith Hotel, the all-women boarding house where Carter lives, is based on the real-life Barbizon Hotel for Women. Butters felt that while working in the time period, it became an issue to not sound "too period". Additionally, it was difficult to write British people from the time in order to avoid stereotypes such as the "typical British butler". However, D'Arcy, who is British, felt the writing staff wrote the British characters better than anyone else he had worked with, despite there not being any British writers on the staff.

Casting
Hayley Atwell reprises her film role as Peggy Carter, the titular character of the television series.
Hayley Atwell reprises her film role as Peggy Carter, the titular character of the television series.
The main cast for the season includes Hayley Atwell as Peggy Carter, reprising her role from the film series, James D'Arcy as Edwin Jarvis, Chad Michael Murray as Jack Thompson, Enver Gjokaj as Daniel Sousa, and Shea Whigham as Roger Dooley.

In March 2014, Markus and McFeely stated that Howard Stark would be a recurring character, contingent on Dominic Cooper's involvement. In June 2014, Atwell confirmed that Cooper would be involved with the series. Kyle Bornheimer, Ralph Brown, Meagen Fay, Lyndsy Fonseca, and Bridget Regan also recur as Ray Krzeminski, Johann Fennhoff, Miriam Fry, Angie Martinelli, and Dottie Underwood, respectively, throughout the series.

In November 2014, it was announced that Costa Ronin would portray a younger version of Anton Vanko, who was portrayed in Iron Man 2 by Yevgeni Lazarev. Chris Evans appears as Steve Rogers / Captain America via archive footage from The First Avenger. Neal McDonough and Toby Jones also reprise their roles of Timothy "Dum Dum" Dugan and Arnim Zola from previous MCU films, One-Shots, and television series during the season.

Filming
Filming began in Los Angeles around late September – early October 2014, with the working title Nylon, and was completed on January 20, 2015. Filming locations included Los Angeles City Hall, Griffith Park, Royce Canyon, the marina in San Pedro, and the Port of Los Angeles.

Cinematographer Gabriel Beristain, returning from the One-Shot, used a combination of modern digital technology and traditional analog techniques to replicate the feel of classic films that are set in the 1940s, but to also have the convenience and consistency of modern technology. Beristain uses the Arri Alexa digital camera, along with Leica lenses and silk-stocking diffusion nets, the latter on which he recalled "I had last used in the 1980s in England on videos and commercials. I remembered that they were fantastic. In combination with the Leica lenses, the look is very classic, very much like a 1940s film. When I saw it, I said, 'This is absolutely Marvel,' and [D'Esposito] agreed." For the series' lighting, Beristain again mixed modern and traditional, using LED fixtures to recreate classic Hollywood lighting. He called his lighting of Atwell "an homage to the great cinematographers who lit Lauren Bacall and Grace Kelly."

Visual effects
Sheena Duggal, who served as visual effects supervisor on the Agent Carter One-Shot, returned to the position for the series, while the companies Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) and Base FX created the visual effects. Work by ILM includes the creation of backdrops for the series, including matte paintings, depicting 1940s New York. DNeg TV also created visual effects, with ILM coordinating with them and Base to maintain a "seamless workflow". The season had 1038 visual effects shots, with multiple episodes being worked on in post-production simultaneously to complete the work. In addition to all the set extensions required to depict the period (the series filmed at "every back lot in LA, including Universal, Paramount and Warner Bros., relying on a tremendous amount of green screen and matte paintings to create the show's authentic-looking locations"), Duggal also noted difficulty in simulating the imploding bombs and creating a fully CG truck that drives off a cliff.

Music
In September 2014, Christopher Lennertz officially signed on to compose for the series, having previously composed the Agent Carter One-Shot. Lennertz combined all the different style elements of the show in the music, such as mixing jazz and period elements, with orchestra and electronic elements. In his research of the music of the time period, Lennertz learned that jazz was shifting from big band to smaller ensembles, and bebop was being introduced. This allowed him to incorporate trumpets in his scores, to harken to the time period and because they are "also very sneaky, and it lends itself to espionage". Lennertz used the alto flute to capture "Carter's aura", saying, "It feels like a strong woman's voice, especially as she's sneaking around....it also has that spy quality." Additionally, Lennertz was able to reorchestrate "Star Spangled Man" for the season, which is originally by Alan Menken for Captain America: The First Avenger, and introduced a folk choral piece performed by a Russian men's choir during "The Iron Ceiling". A soundtrack album for the season was released on iTunes on December 11, 2015.

All music composed by Christopher Lennertz.

No.	Title	Length
1.	"Peggy Remembers Cap"	1:51
2.	"Back Alley Surprise"	0:58
3.	"Bad Babies"	2:52
4.	"Typewriter Spy Messages"	1:26
5.	"Green Man Fight"	2:02
6.	"Blindes and Money"	1:29
7.	"Roxxon Plant Implosion"	5:14
8.	"Morning After Shooting"	1:42
9.	"Dairy Van Implosion"	1:31
10.	"Dottie's Training"	1:17
11.	"Forgot the Password"	1:23
12.	"Thompson's Navy Cross"	1:37
13.	"Instill Fear"	3:09
14.	"Dottie Sneaks In"	3:47
15.	"Peggy Saves Thompson"	6:13
16.	"Dottie and Doctor Plot"	2:52
17.	"Inside the Minds of Soldiers"	2:38
18.	"Interrogating Peggy"	2:08
19.	"Enter Dooley's Head"	1:09
20.	"Leviathan is Coming"	0:57
21.	"I'm Invisible to You"	1:55
22.	"Doctor and Dottie Escape with Item"	1:40
23.	"Vest of Destruction"	4:18
24.	"Check the Rooftops"	1:44
25.	"Bring Him Home"	1:23
26.	"Badass Girl Fight"	2:12
27.	"We Have to Let Him Go"	2:10
28.	"Peggy Gets Her Respect"	2:26
29.	"Honored to Assist You"	1:28
Total length:	65:31
Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
Markus, talking about the series place in the greater architecture of the MCU in January 2015 said "you really only need to drop the tiniest bit of hint and its connected. You don't have to go, "Howard Stark's wearing the same pants that Tony wears!" ... Everything is enhanced just by the knowledge that its all connected." The season introduces the Red Room program, which would eventually produce Natasha Romanoff, who appears in multiple MCU films portrayed by Scarlett Johansson. Although the origins of the program are explored, the term "Black Widow" is never used in the series. Agent Carter also explores the origins of the Hydra-led Winter Soldier program, as seen by the end tag in "Valediction" when Arnim Zola approaches Faustus about mind control. The law firm Goodman, Kurtzberg, and Holliway is mentioned, with a modern-day version of the law firm, Goodman, Lieber, Kurtzberg, and Holliway, appearing in the Marvel Studios Disney+ series She-Hulk: Attorney at Law (2022).

Marketing
In the lead up to the airing of the series, Atwell made several appearances as Carter in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s second season. Footage from the first episode was shown at New York Comic Con on October 10, 2014, and again in ABC's one-hour television special, Marvel 75 Years: From Pulp to Pop!, which aired in November 2014. The first teaser for the series debuted during Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. on October 28, 2014, with the tagline "Sometimes the best man for the job ... is a woman." Though the trailer itself was received positively, the tagline was criticized as "awful" and "ridiculous", and Alan Sepinwall of HitFix said "I get that one of the themes of the show will be Peggy dealing with the sexism of the time, but these ads exist in 2014, not 1945. Please find a new tagline."

Release
Broadcast
Agent Carter debuted in the United States and Canada as a two-hour series premiere on January 6, 2015, on ABC and CTV, respectively. It began airing in New Zealand on TV2 on February 11, 2015. In October 2014, Channel 4, the channel that airs Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. in the United Kingdom, stated that they did not "have any current plans [to air] Agent Carter". In June 2015, FOX UK purchased the broadcast rights for the United Kingdom, with the series premiering on July 12, 2015.

Home media
The season was released on Blu-ray and DVD on September 18, 2015, as an Amazon exclusive. On November 29, 2017, Hulu acquired the exclusive streaming rights to the series, and the season was made available on Disney+ at launch, on November 12, 2019.

Reception
Ratings
Table info: No., Title, Air date, Rating/share(18–49), Vi... ▼
NO.	TITLE	AIR DATE	RATING/SHARE
(18–49)	VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	DVR
(18–49)	DVR VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	TOTAL
(18–49)	TOTAL VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)
1	"Now is Not the End"	January 6, 2015	1.9/6	6.91	1.1	3.25	3.0	10.16
2	"Bridge and Tunnel"	January 6, 2015	1.9/6	6.91	1.1	3.25	3.0	10.16
3	"Time and Tide"	January 13, 2015	1.5/4	5.10	0.8	2.56	2.3	7.66
4	"The Blitzkrieg Button"	January 27, 2015	1.3/4	4.63	1.0	2.54	2.3	7.16
5	"The Iron Ceiling"	February 3, 2015	1.3/4	4.20	—	—	—	—
6	"A Sin to Err"	February 10, 2015	1.4/4	4.25	0.9	—	2.3	—
7	"Snafu"	February 17, 2015	1.4/4	4.15	0.8	2.09	2.2	6.24
8	"Valediction"	February 24, 2015	1.3/4	4.02	0.9	—	2.2	—
Close ▲
The season averaged 7.14 million total viewers, including from DVR, ranking 74th among network series in the 2014–15 television season. It also had an average total 18-49 rating of 2.3, which was 46th.

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 96% approval rating with an average rating of 7.90/10 based on 50 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "Focusing on Peggy Carter as a person first and an action hero second makes Marvel's Agent Carter a winning, stylish drama with bursts of excitement and an undercurrent of cheeky fun". Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 73 out of 100 based on 27 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews."

Brian Lowry, reviewing the two-part premiere for Variety, felt that giving Atwell her own television series was "a pretty smart bet" by Marvel, and he called the episodes "considerable fun". He noted the period setting as contributing to this, and positively mentioned the score by composer Christopher Lennertz. Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly felt that "the show isn't as retro-stylish as it thinks it is ... the first hour of Agent Carter feels like an above-average episode of Young Indiana Jones Chronicles", noting that it tonally aims for His Girl Friday, Dick Tracy, and Alias ("A tough tonal mixture on a weekly broadcast budget, but also an ambition worth pursuing"), but praised Atwell's performance, calling her "a delight" and "firing on all cylinders". Franich was negative about what he saw to be common MCU tropes, notably "Somebody named Stark invented something dangerous; everyone wants an All-Important Glowing Thing; there's an implicit promise that nothing will be solved for weeks/years to come." Though he was wary about the series being forced to contribute to the rest of the MCU, he did note that "Agent Carter feels pleasantly segmented off from the greater Marvel Machinery".

Eric Goldman of IGN gave the first season an 8.8 out of 10, saying, "Agent Carter didn't need to succeed by setting up something to pay off in Guardians of the Galaxy 2 – it just needed to be an entertaining, involving show. And boy, was it." He also praised the Peggy and Jarvis dynamic, the MCU tie-ins and connections the series included, such as the Black Widow program, and the strong portrayals of the season's supporting characters. Amy Ratcliffe at Nerdist called the season "a memorable splash" a noted that the lack of filler in the short season lead to "action-packed but not overstuffed" episodes. She praised the "period aspect that's defined so well by music, sets, and costumes" as placing the series "head and shoulders above others", and called the cast "eminently talented". On the other hand, Lowry ultimately found the series "just didn't have legs", saying that after the premiere it "meandered through several episodes that merely seemed to inch the story along, rallying only slightly in the not wholly satisfying conclusion." He felt that outside of Atwell's Carter and D'Arcy's Jarvis that characters were not developed enough, and said that the MCU tie-in with Toby Jones' Arnim Zola made the series seem like "a footnote".

Accolades
Maureen Ryan of Variety named the show one of the Top 20 Best New Shows of 2015, while Digital Spy ranked it 10th on their Best TV Shows of 2015 list. The A.V. Club named Atwell's performance as one of the "Best Individual Performances" of 2015.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2015	Hollywood Post Alliance Awards	Outstanding Visual Effects – Television (Under 13 Episodes)	Sheena Duggal, Richard Bluff, Jay Mehta, Chad Taylor, and Cody Gramstad for "Now is Not the End"	Nominated
Saturn Awards	Best Superhero Adaptation Television Series	Agent Carter	Nominated
Best Actress in a Television Series	Hayley Atwell	Nominated
Best Guest Performance in a Television Series	Dominic Cooper	Nominated
2016	Visual Effects Society Awards	Outstanding Supporting Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	"Now is Not the End"	Nominated
Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists Guild Awards	Television and New Media Series – Best Period and/or Character Hair Styling	Agent Carter	Nominated
Close ▲
Notes
References
External links
Agent Carter
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Peggy Carter
Agent Carter (season 2)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Agent Carter (TV series)
Agent Carter (season 1)
Agent Carter (film)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Agent Carter (season 2)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The second and final season of the American television series Agent Carter, which is inspired by the 2011 film Captain America: The First Avenger and the 2013 Marvel One-Shot short film of the same name, features the character Peggy Carter, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, as she moves to Los Angeles to deal with the threats of the new atomic age in the wake of World War II, gaining new friends, a new home, and potential new love. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films of the franchise, and was produced by ABC Studios, Marvel Television, and F&B Fazekas & Butters. Tara Butters, Michele Fazekas, and Chris Dingess served as showrunners.

Quick facts: Agent Carter, Starring, Country of origin, No... ▼
Close ▲
In May 2015, a second season of Agent Carter was ordered, with Hayley Atwell, who reprises her role from the film series and One-Shot as Carter, returning to star. Alongside her, James D'Arcy, Chad Michael Murray, and Enver Gjokaj also return from the first season. Filming took place in Los Angeles in late 2015, with the season contrasting the lives of Carter and the Hedy Lamarr-inspired Whitney Frost, portrayed by recurring guest star Wynn Everett. Visual and practical effects were mixed to realize the setting and more fantastical elements of the series, while David Zippel and Louis van Amstel provided a musical dream sequence for the season. Other characters from previous MCU media also appear, as well as elements shared with the films and the television series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.

The season, which aired on ABC from January 19 to March 1, 2016, over 10 episodes, aired during the season three mid-season break of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., receiving generally positive reviews. Critics praised the performances, setting, and the character development of Whitney Frost, but some elements, such as the season's ending and humor, were criticized, and viewership for the season was deemed too low. ABC canceled Agent Carter on May 12, 2016.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
9	1	"The Lady in the Lake"	Lawrence Trilling	Brant Englestein	January19,2016	3.18
In 1947 New York City, Chief Jack Thompson and Agent Peggy Carter of the Strategic Scientific Reserve (SSR) apprehend Soviet spy Dottie Underwood. Newly appointed Chief Daniel Sousa of the Los Angeles SSR office meets with Detective Andrew Henry, who has discovered a woman's body in a frozen lake during a heat wave. Sousa, doubting his inexperienced agents, asks Thompson for backup; he sends Carter. An autopsy shows that the body glows in the dark, likely caused by Isodyne Energy's particle accelerator. Carter learns from Isodyne scientist Jason Wilkes that the woman, physicist Jane Scott, had an affair with Isodyne owner and prospective senator Calvin Chadwick. Underwood is taken into FBI custody, with Thompson's mentor Vernon Masters warning him of greater forces than the SSR that may affect his future. Henry attempts to kill Wilkes, but is killed himself by a police officer; Henry and the officer were hired to cover up the murder by Chadwick and his actress wife Whitney Frost following the former's affair.
10	2	"A View in the Dark"	Lawrence Trilling	Eric Pearson & Lindsey Allen	January19,2016	3.18
Chadwick meets with the secretive Council of Nine, who shut down his Zero Matter program due to its seeming lack of results, and want him to focus on his senatorial ambitions. Chadwick informs Frost, who is the true brains behind the program, while struggling with her acting due to sexism in Hollywood. Wilkes meets with Carter to help with her investigation, though he is hesitant to turn on Isodyne—the only company willing to hire him as a black man. Wilkes explains that Isodyne had attempted to replicate the success of the Manhattan Project and in doing so had discovered Zero Matter. Scott must have come into physical contact with it, though its effects are not limited to freezing. Carter and Wilkes agree to steal the Zero Matter, but at Isodyne find Council agents destroying the program. Wilkes gets to the Zero Matter, where he is confronted by Frost, who is there to steal it herself. They are exposed to the substance in the ensuing scuffle, leaving Wilkes presumed dead and Frost having absorbed Zero Matter.
11	3	"Better Angels"	David Platt	Jose Molina	January26,2016	2.90
At Frost's behest, Chadwick frames Wilkes as a Communist spy who had infiltrated Isodyne and destroyed the facility. Thompson comes to Los Angeles to "clean-up" the situation at the invitation of Masters, sending Carter back to New York City where she enlists the help of Howard Stark to investigate the Arena Club—whose membership pin was borne by the Council of Nine agents—but is unable to prove that the Council has blackmailed Chadwick's senatorial competitor into dropping out of the race. Carter "misses" her flight, and after unsuccessfully confronting Frost, is attacked by Council hitman Rufus Hunt, barely fending him off. Investigating a gravitational anomaly around Carter, Stark discovers Wilkes is alive but temporarily invisible and non-corporeal, and goes in search of his mentor for help in restoring Wilkes' body. Frost absorbs her film director with newly discovered Zero Matter abilities, and Masters introduces Thompson to Chadwick to celebrate the latter's now guaranteed-senatorship, convincing Thompson that Carter was right.
12	4	"Smoke & Mirrors"	David Platt	Sue Chung	February2,2016	2.77
In the 1920s in Broxton, Oklahoma, Agnes Cully (Frost) is shown to have a brilliant mind, fixing a broken radio, inventing devices, and applying to a science program at Oklahoma University (unsuccessfully due to her gender). In 1934, Cully travels to Hollywood, where she is approached by a talent agent, promising to make her a star. In 1940 in England, Carter, who is engaged, receives an offer to join the Special Operations Executive due to her work at Bletchley Park as a codebreaker; she eventually accepts the offer and leaves her fiancé after her brother's, Michael, death in the war. In 1947, Carter and Edwin Jarvis kidnap Hunt in an attempt to learn more about the Council. After getting names of members of the Council of Nine and locations of transcripts of their meetings, Carter and Sousa prepare the SSR to infiltrate the Arena Club, but are stopped by Masters. They let a bugged Hunt escape, and he attempts to blackmail Chadwick in exchange for protection. Displeased with the mess he was causing, Frost absorbs Hunt, revealing her abilities to Chadwick.
13	5	"The Atomic Job"	Craig Zisk	Lindsey Allen	February9,2016	2.66
Wilkes becomes drawn to the Zero Matter in a sample of Scott's body. After absorbing that small amount, Wilkes temporarily regains his physical body and discovers the location of Scott's. Carter and Jarvis attempt to steal Scott's body, hoping that the rest of the Zero Matter within it will restore Wilkes permanently, but arrive to see Frost taking the Zero Matter for herself, before convincing Chadwick to help her steal an atomic bomb from the Council so she can replicate the original discovery of Zero Matter. They seek help from Frost's ex-boyfriend Joseph Manfredi, a crime lord, who gives them men for the job in exchange for Chadwick's influence in the media. Carter, Jarvis, Sousa and some SSR allies break into the Roxxon facility holding the bombs and disable them before Frost can reach them. Carter confronts Frost, but she escapes when Carter is impaled on a rebar. Sousa accidentally reveals to his new fiancé that he loves Carter, and while Wilkes comforts Carter as she recuperates, his form begins to fade away.
14	6	"Life of the Party"	Craig Zisk	Eric Pearson	February16,2016	2.39
Desperate to stabilize himself before he is completely drawn away, Wilkes designs a containment chamber for himself, but requires more Zero Matter. Carter realizes that Frost is now the only source of Zero Matter, but is still too injured to get it herself. Instead, she breaks Underwood out of prison, sending her to one of Chadwick's campaign events with Jarvis. The event is also cover for a Council of Nine meeting, with Chadwick having convinced them to see Frost (they usually never speak with outsiders, let alone women). Masters and Thompson are also at the event; Jarvis distracts Thompson while Underwood collects the Zero Matter from Frost using a device designed by Wilkes. Sousa tells Carter that his fiancée left him due to his supposed feelings for her. Underwood eavesdrops on the Council meeting, watching as Chadwick betrays Frost and has her restrained. Frost destroys Chadwick and half of the Council, proclaiming herself leader of the remaining Council members. Masters and Thompson capture Underwood for Frost.
15	7	"Monsters"	Metin Hüseyin	Brandon Easton	February16,2016	2.39
Frost and the Council of Nine cover up her murder of Chadwick and the other Council members, and Frost makes Manfredi her second-in-command. With the help of Jarvis's wife Ana, Wilkes uses the Zero Matter and containment chamber to restore his physical form, though he knows he cannot leave the chamber for long. Masters tries to interrogate Underwood, before Frost reassigns him to finding the uranium that Carter and company stole from the Roxxon bombs. Frost interrogates Underwood herself, using her abilities, and learns that Carter wanted the Zero Matter because of Wilkes and his condition. Frost sets a trap, luring Carter and Jarvis away from Wilkes. Masters attempts to get Sousa to cooperate in retrieving the uranium, and when he refuses, has men attack him at home, forcing Sousa to take leave—Masters takes over the Los Angeles office of the SSR. Frost and Manfredi kidnap Wilkes, with Frost hoping to help and study him. To slow down Carter's pursuit of them, Frost shoots Ana, and while Carter and Jarvis are focused on saving Ana, Underwood escapes.
16	8	"The Edge of Mystery"	Metin Hüseyin	Brant Englestein	February23,2016	2.50
Frost tells Wilkes that if he accepts the power of the Zero Matter within him then he will be able to control it. Carter and Sousa meet with Frost, giving her fake uranium in exchange for Wilkes. Frost soon realizes the ruse, and pursues them. Wilkes, learning to control his abilities and change between corporeal and non-corporeal states, turns on Carter, demanding that Sousa reveal the location of the real uranium. Sousa directs him to a vault at the SSR. Ana survives surgery, but loses the ability to have children. Thompson overhears Frost telling Masters to retrieve the uranium, but is incapacitated by Masters. Carter and Sousa join Thompson, and, along with Jarvis and a new gamma cannon courtesy of Stark, travel to the Isodyne atomic testing area. Wilkes is sucked into a rift created by the now armed atomic bomb, but the cannon closes the rift and returns Wilkes, now full of Zero Matter. A revenge-seeking Jarvis shoots Frost, but she survives due to her Zero Matter. Jarvis and Carter are taken hostage by Manfredi's men.
17	9	"A Little Song and Dance"	Jennifer Getzinger	Story by: Michele Fazekas & Tara Butters
Teleplay by: Chris Dingess	February23,2016	2.50
Carter and Jarvis escape capture while Thompson and Sousa return to the SSR. Manfredi sets up a new lab for Frost in an abandoned facility, where she begins trying to take all of Wilkes' Zero Matter for herself. Thompson convinces Masters to use the gamma cannon against Frost, then visits Frost, warning her of Masters' treachery and offering to turn on him in exchange for a seat on the Council of Nine. Thompson then turns on Carter and Sousa, delaying them, as he actually intends to remote detonate the cannon to kill Frost, Masters, and Wilkes. Thompson turns Masters over to Frost, but the SSR manage to jam his detonator signal before he can detonate the cannon. Carter tries to get Wilkes out of the building, but he refuses to leave knowing what he has become. Thompson holds the others at gunpoint until his signal is un-jammed, though Carter is still unwilling for Wilkes to die. As Frost begins killing Masters, he notices that the cannon is being activated. Wilkes finds them and unleashes all the Zero Matter from within himself.
18	10	"Hollywood Ending"	Jennifer Getzinger	Story by: Chris Dingess
Teleplay by: Michele Fazekas & Tara Butters	March1,2016	2.35
Frost absorbs the Zero Matter released from Wilkes, who is rescued by Carter, as Stark returns and aids in their escape. Thompson finds in Masters' possession a supposedly incriminating file on Carter and a secret Council of Nine key. Manfredi becomes concerned with Frost's behavior, and her new obsession with opening another rift, this time with a machine of her own design. He meets with Stark—an old friend of his—and the others, and agrees to distract Frost while Carter and Sousa photograph the blueprints for Frost's machine, which Stark and Wilkes build themselves. They open a new rift, and Frost is drawn to it. They use the gamma cannon to expel the Zero Matter from her, into the other dimension; Frost is left insane from her time controlled by the Zero Matter, and is placed in a mental asylum. Thompson gives the secret key to Carter, who is convinced to stay in Los Angeles to be with Sousa. Thompson prepares to return to New York, but is shot in his hotel room; the shooter takes the file on Carter.
Close ▲
Production
Development
In January 2015, showrunners Michele Fazekas and Tara Butters confirmed that Agent Carter was not intended to be a miniseries, and that a possible second season would not necessarily be limited to eight episodes like the first. The series was renewed for a second season on May 7, 2015, intended to debut in 2016 of the 2015–16 season during the midseason break of the third season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Later in May, Hayley Atwell stated the season would consist of 10 episodes. Butters explained that this would probably not allow for any standalone episodes, "but I definitely think it allows for more character, because we can have more personal stories built into the framework of the overall arching mystery".

Writing
What I love about LA that is different than New York is you have the spectacular wealth and glamour and beauty right next to the grit and crime, often right up against each other. So I love telling those stories. I love ugly things happening in beautiful places. We're very much being inspired by noir films. We keep talking about L.A. Confidential and Chinatown and those great stories where you find out one thing—you're investigating one seemingly isolated crime, and it unveils a huge web of conspiracy and awfulness. So we're getting inspired by that.

—Executive producer Michele Fazekas on the difference between the first and second seasons' locations.

Before the second season was announced, Fazekas said that "We've certainly been talking about what a second season would look like...what's great about the structure of this show is, you can tell so many different stories and go so many different directions." Thus, Butters said of the first season storyline featuring Leviathan, "we wrapped up that story" already, with Toby Jones' cameo as Arnim Zola in the first-season finale just "a fun tie-in" rather than something that would be followed up on in the second season. Series creators Christopher Markus & Stephen McFeely revealed they "had a really nice story about who Peggy is and where she came from" that did not make it into the first season, but they hoped could be explored in a second, while Fazekas and Butters also revealed that there had been a story about Carter having "a night out with the girls" to explore her personal life, as well as more material for the character Angie, that they felt would both be easier to tell in a second season.

Season two is set in 1947, approximately six months to a year following the events of the first, with the time jump made to show "people are in a little bit different positions, and things have happened between these seasons that we maybe don't know about." Fazekas noted that "the challenge" for the season was to find a way to reunite Carter with Edwin Jarvis since he is "not an agent....that's a really important relationship, how do we keep them together?...The nice thing about Peggy this season is she's not having to hide her agenda from the SSR. [Jarvis] is helping her out, just in a different way." Elaborating on the SSR's role in the season, Fazekas explained that when Markus and McFeely created the organisation for Captain America: The First Avenger it was inspired by the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), which was "somewhat disbanded after the war, because it was created because of World War II. So now that the war is over, things are changing. And in real history, the OSS sort of became the CIA and some of its other functions went under other departments. There's a little bit of change going on within SSR and so Thompson [is now the New York SSR chief, but he] has a boss [in Vernon Masters] that's going to be saying, "Look, things are changing, and you need to look out for yourself."" The season also sees Daniel Sousa promoted to the chief of the Los Angeles SSR office.

The fictional company Isodyne Energy, who is involved with nuclear testing in the desert, was influenced by the real life 1940s companies such as Radiodyne, General Atomics or the beginnings of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, "all of which were in L.A. in the '40s, and were developing the space program and were developing nukes." Additionally, the season avoids depicting real life Hollywood stars from the 1940s because "the focus would shift from story to: does that person look or sound like an actor?" Instead, the character Whitney Frost is depicted as an actress "who will have a part to play in our larger storyline." The season introduces the Council of Nine, based on the Secret Empire, who "meet at the Arena Club, which is like this social club of white guys. They're just the guys who sort of run the world. They have orchestrated assassinations. We insinuate that they orchestrated the 1929 Stock Market crash." Members of the Council include powerful businessmen Calvin Chadwick and Hugh Jones, and their influence extends to "high levels of the government" as seen with War Department veteran Vernon Masters. Despite close similarities between the "A" symbol of the Arena Club and a Hydra symbol introduced in the third season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Fazekas stated that she "would not say" there was a connection between the Council and Hydra.

With the introduction of Jason Wilkes and Frost, both considered "outsiders" as Carter was in the first season, co-showrunner Chris Dingess noted how their arcs in the season would be similar, yet different from Carter's, saying "I think everyone, to get to that place of getting respect, has a different road to get there. Everyone makes different choices along the way that define that road and I think with these three characters, everyone has a distinct, separate path." Atwell spoke specifically about the season's approach to diversity and prejudice, and noted that the series' crew had expanded to include African American and Asian writers as well as a female director. "Since the first season heavily focused on a woman in a man's world," Atwell said, "we're now going into more diversity and we're investigating different prejudices within this time and one of them absolutely would have been race, as we all know....if you have a staunchly white male cast then it might be more accurate of the time, but it becomes less relatable to our audiences, especially when the Marvel world's so diverse." On the racism issue, Butters stated, "We didn't want to just have an African-American character and not talk about that. That would have been very inauthentic." As for the sexism Frost faces, Gina McIntyre and Andrea Towers of Entertainment Weekly saw similarities with Jessica Jones when Frost is asked to smile by two different men in her flashbacks in "Smoke & Mirrors". Towers said, "The talent agent [who asks Frost to smile] may not be the Purple Man, but Whitney is certainly being ushered into a brainwashed mindset that will set her on a path she can't deviate from easily."

At the conclusion of the season, Fazekas recalled the potential story revolving around Carter having a girls night out, saying that they realized that "once Peggy is on the mission, it starts to become difficult for her to have a social life...we kept sort of punting that scene because every time we tried to do it, it was like, 'She's not going to stop to go out to dinner. She has the world to save.'" Also, they felt they were not properly servicing Angie's character, instead "just sticking her in scenes just to be there," resulting in the decision to ultimately not bring Angie back for the season as planned. In her place, the characters of Ana Jarvis and Rose Roberts are featured as confidante's for Carter, "both people who are 100% in on Peggy's secret. Angie sort of figures it out at the end of the first season but Ana and Rose—there is no need to hide the truth from them. So it makes it a lot easier for her to confide in them."

Casting
Hayley Atwell, James D'Arcy, Chad Michael Murray, and Enver Gjokaj return from the first season to star as Peggy Carter, Edwin Jarvis, Jack Thompson, and Daniel Sousa, respectively. By June 2015, it was reported that Marvel was working to have Bridget Regan (Dottie Underwood) and Lyndsy Fonseca (Angie Martinelli) return for the season. At Fan Expo Canada that September, Atwell confirmed that Regan would return for the season, with Dominic Cooper and Lesley Boone later also confirmed to be reprising their roles, respectively as Howard Stark and Rose Roberts. In December 2015, Fonseca was confirmed to return for a dream sequence in "A Little Song and Dance". Also returning for the second season was Ray Wise as Hugh Jones.

In August 2015, it was revealed that the character Whitney Frost would appear in the season, and Currie Graham was cast as her husband, Calvin Chadwick, the owner of Isodyne Energy. In October, Wynn Everett was revealed to be cast as Frost; Reggie Austin was cast as physicist Jason Wilkes; Lotte Verbeek was cast in the role of Ana Jarvis, the wife of Edwin Jarvis; and Kurtwood Smith was revealed to be recurring as Vernon Masters, a veteran of the War Department. The next month, Ken Marino was cast as Joseph Manfredi, leader of the Maggia crime syndicate. Additionally, Matt Braunger was cast as SSR lab tech Aloysius Samberly, and Rey Valentin was cast as SSR Agent Vega.

The dream sequence in "A Little Song and Dance", dubbed an informal crossover with Dancing with the Stars, features many of the professional dancers from that series, including Louis van Amstel, Dmitry Chaplin, Karina Smirnoff, Anna Trebunskaya, Sasha Farber, and Damian Whitewood. Dancers Robert Roldan, Malene Ostergaard, Amanda Balen, Serge Onik, Jenya Shatilova, Lacey Escabar, Alla Kocherga, and Paul Kirkland are also featured in the sequence.

Design
Series costume designer Giovanna Ottobre-Melton took inspiration from the films L.A. Confidential (1997), Chinatown (1974), and Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1988) to "represent the West Coast", and the "sunshine noir" feel of the era for the season. The then-just introduced "Dior New Look" is also referenced "with longer hemlines on supporting players." The dream sequence at the beginning of "A Little Song and Dance" was choreographed by Louis van Amstel and begins in black and white, before transitioning to color. Head of make-up Debra LaMia Denaver explained that for the Zero Matter "wound" on Frost's face, the "guidelines were for it to be like a cracked porcelain doll and then the black matter would come from inside out. From there, Jay [Wejebe, makeup artist] designed the prosthetics that we use and Robin [Beauchesne, key makeup artist] created all the different avenues the dark matter takes." Using reference photographs and pre-made prosthetics, the make-up team were ultimately able to apply the effect to Everett in 30 minutes.

Filming
Filming for the season began on August 31, and ended on December 19, 2015, with Edward J. Pei serving as director of photography. Unlike the first season, episodes were filmed concurrently, two at a time. Discussing the series' location move, Head of Marvel Television Jeph Loeb explained that "Agent Carter season one took place in New York in 1946. It wasn't like we could go to New York and find 1946, so we shot in L.A. But that's part of the reason that when we talked about it, we said, 'You know what? This season let's stay in L.A.' Because so much of L.A. still looks like it did in 1946." Butters expanded by saying the move to L.A. "was something we had talked about in the middle of the first season...[and] we realized that not only was it a good idea for the storytelling, but also...it's much easier for us to shoot L.A. for L.A. than try to shoot L.A. for New York." She added the season hoped to film at Musso & Frank Grill, the Formosa Cafe, the Griffith Observatory, racetracks, piers, and other locations in Downtown Los Angeles.

The Universal Studios Lot serves as the backlot for the film studio Stark starts, Stark Pictures, with filming also taking place at the Los Angeles River. The Dunbar Hotel, a famous jazz club where both African-Americans and Caucasians would attend, is portrayed in the season. The showrunners looked to the films L.A. Confidential, Chinatown, The Big Heat (1953), and The Lady from Shanghai (1947) when shaping the visuals for the season, with additional research provided by Pei. Butters said, "it doesn't feel like a different show. It just feels like an evolution of the show."

Visual effects
DNeg TV provided the visual effects for the season, with Sheena Duggal returning as visual effects supervisor. Effects created for the season included the Zero Matter and its related properties, such as people being frozen and shattered by it, the dimensional rifts and the levitated objects that get sucked into them, and Wilkes becoming intangible. Frost's Zero Matter "crack" on her face was also augmented with visual effects, to add depth, sentience, and an "infinite black" by color-correcting the image, with the effects animators studying "cracking glass to better capture the animation effect." 20 cast members were digitally scanned and modeled for interaction with Zero Matter, while many other instances required facial tracking markers on actors. For the Zero Matter itself, the design was described as a cross between "liquid spiders" and magnetic ferrofluid, the latter being used as an on set reference for the actors by Duggal. The main dimensional rifts were designed as black holes, based on the work of theoretical physicist Kip Thorne, which also inspired Double Negative's visual effects for Interstellar; the software developed for the film was reused for the series. DNeg TV also worked on Howard Stark's Hover car, using the original computer asset for the version seen in Captain America: The First Avenger. Despite the original car from the film being only a shell and destroyed after the picture, an identical Cadillac was found for DNeg to laser scan and incorporate into the episode along with the real car when it is parked on the ground.

Music
The dance number used in the dream sequence from "A Little Song and Dance" was an original song from lyricist David Zippel and series composer Christopher Lennertz, in conjunction with Butters and Fazekas. Titled "Whatcha Gonna Do (It's Up to You)", the single was performed by Atwell and Gjokaj along with the Hollywood Studio Symphony, and was released on iTunes on March 18, 2016.

Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
In July 2015, Butters revealed that the season would feature the Darkforce, which ties to the characters Doctor Strange and Marcus Daniels, the latter having appeared in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. In January 2016, Fazekas elaborated, saying that the Darkforce, known as Zero Matter in the series, is the result of a nuclear test gone wrong by Isodyne Energy. Looking to the history of the Darkforce in the comics, Fazekas and Butters "were able to select what we liked and sort of make our own rules as to what it does, how it operates, and who it affects in our world." The producers tried to take a scientific approach to the explanation of the Zero Matter, consulting with theoretical physicist Clifford Johnson to help ground it in science. Johnson provided the science equations seen on blackboards throughout the season, as well as real world reference for the Zero Matter containment systems. The showrunners also conversed with Eric Carroll at Marvel Studios to ensure anything they were doing with the Darkforce would not contradict the Doctor Strange script, and to see if they could destroy Howard Stark's hover car, which was originally seen as a prototype in Captain America: The First Avenger. The mention in the season finale of the land Stark owns in Malibu is a reference to what will become the location for the home of his son, Tony, in the MCU films.

Marketing
Footage from the first episode was screened at New York Comic Con in October 2015, while the first trailer for the season was released in November. Alice Walker of Screen Rant felt that the promo "highlight[ed] the best parts of the show", calling it "[f]ast paced and slick" and Atwell "still incredibly charming". She further noted that "There is a long way to go before we see if they can build on the momentum from the previous season, but so far it looks like a fun adventure." Conversely, Kaitlin Thomas at TV.com called the promo "weird", asking, "Why is ABC marketing Agent Carter like it's one of the network's casually daft melodramas instead of a well-written drama[?]...From a tonal and thematic standpoint, the series depicted in that trailer feels like the polar opposite of what it actually is....cutting together a bunch of scenes of Peggy punching people or holding a gun does not make her a badass when its framed in this way, and frankly, it's no wonder people aren't tuning in if that's the type of show they think this is." In March 2016, Maureen Ryan, writing for Variety, described the season's promotion as "lackluster", and blamed "the botched rollout of Season 2" for the season's ultimately poor viewership.

Release
Broadcast
Season two of Agent Carter premiered on January 19, 2016, on ABC with a two-hour premiere, during the midseason break of the third season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. It was originally scheduled to premiere on January 5, 2016, but was delayed due to an "earlier than usual" 2016 State of the Union Address. The season aired until March 1, 2016.

Home media
On November 29, 2017, Hulu acquired the exclusive streaming rights to the series, and the season was made available on Disney+ at launch, on November 12, 2019.

Reception
Ratings
Table info: No., Title, Air date, Rating/share(18–49), Vi... ▼
NO.	TITLE	AIR DATE	RATING/SHARE
(18–49)	VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	DVR
(18–49)	DVR VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	TOTAL
(18–49)	TOTAL VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)
1	"The Lady in the Lake"	January 19, 2016	0.9/3	3.18	0.7	2.01	1.6	5.18
2	"A View in the Dark"	January 19, 2016	0.9/3	3.18	0.7	2.01	1.6	5.18
3	"Better Angels"	January 26, 2016	0.9/3	2.90	0.6	1.81	1.5	4.71
4	"Smoke & Mirrors"	February 2, 2016	0.8/2	2.77	0.7	1.85	1.5	4.62
5	"The Atomic Job"	February 9, 2016	0.8/2	2.66	0.6	1.69	1.4	4.35
6	"Life of the Party"	February 16, 2016	0.7/2	2.39	0.6	1.57	1.3	3.96
7	"Monsters"	February 16, 2016	0.7/2	2.39	0.6	1.57	1.3	3.96
8	"The Edge of Mystery"	February 23, 2016	0.8/2	2.50	—	1.42	—	3.92
9	"A Little Song and Dance"	February 23, 2016	0.8/2	2.50	—	1.42	—	3.92
10	"Hollywood Ending"	March 1, 2016	0.7/2	2.35	0.6	1.46	1.3	3.81
Close ▲
The season averaged 4.37 million total viewers, including from DVR, ranking 109th among network series in the 2015–16 television season. It also had an average total 18-49 rating of 1.4, which was 88th.

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 76% approval rating with an average rating of 7.96/10 based on 21 reviews. The website's consensus reads, "A move from New York to Hollywood gives Agent Carter new territory to explore, as the series continues to search for a storyline as dynamic as its heroine." Variety's Brian Lowry was less positive, praising the casting and performances but saying, "Agent Carter feels too slavishly locked into the S.H.I.E.L.D. formula...it's sort of a shame Agent Carter isn't more compelling, since the impeccable period trappings and costumes make the series a nice change of pace, at least visually."

Eric Goldman of IGN gave the season an 8.3 out of 10, praising Atwell's performance, as well as the return of Dottie in the season and the additions of Ana Jarvis and Whitney Frost. Conversely, he felt Reggie Austin as Jason Wilkes was likable, but ultimately the "character felt a bit bland" and that the humor in the season was pushed "a bit too far". He concluded, "I don't think [the season] was quite as tightly-constructed as Season 1 and tonally, it sometimes wrestled with finding the right balance between the cool spy-action elements and the likable comedic aspect... But overall, it was another fun season filled with compelling characters—including a strong villain—and 1940s, Marvel-flavored spy heroics, which benefitted from the new visuals the Los Angeles setting gave it." Molly Freeman, reviewing the season finale for Screen Rant, called the season as a whole "Excellent", particularly praising the character development given to the character of Whitney Frost, but criticized the way that the season ended that character's storyline, stating that the finale "does a disservice to all the character development of Whitney throughout season 2....for the sake of sweeping her aside as easily as possible and giving the other cast members more development and screen time. After watching Agent Carter develop Whitney as such a powerful and sympathetic villain earlier this season, the way the show wrapped up her storyline is a disappointment." Bob Chipman, in a review of the whole season for the same website, disagreed, calling the season "consistently disappointing" and "a letdown" compared to the previous season.

Accolades
For the season, the series was nominated for Best Superhero Adaptation Series at the 42nd Saturn Awards.

References
External links
Agent Carter
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Peggy Carter
