https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Punisher_(TV_series)

The Punisher (TV series)
2017–2019 Marvel Television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Karen Page
Jigsaw (Marvel Comics)
Jon Bernthal
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about The Punisher (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Marvel's The Punisher is an American television series created by Steve Lightfoot for the streaming service Netflix, based on the Marvel Comics character Punisher. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), acknowledging the continuity of the franchise's films and other television series. It is a spin-off from the first Marvel Netflix series, Daredevil (2015–2018). The Punisher was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios and Bohemian Risk Productions, with Lightfoot serving as showrunner.

Quick facts: The Punisher, Genre, Created by, Based on, St... ▼
The Punisher
Punisher_%28TV_series%29_logo.jpg
Genre
Created by	Steve Lightfoot
Based on
Starring
Composer	Tyler Bates
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	2
No. of episodes	26
Production
Executive producers
Tom Shankland (1x01 only)
Cindy Holland
Allie Goss
Laura Delahaye
Kris Henigman
Alan Fine
Stan Lee
Joe Quesada
Karim Zreik
Jim Chory
Jeph Loeb
Steve Lightfoot
Producer	Gail Barringer
Production location	New York City
Cinematography
Bill Coleman
Manuel Billeter
Petr Hlinomaz
Editors
William Yeh
Russell Denove
Tim Mirkovich
Tirsa Hackshaw
Trevor Penna
Running time	49–58 minutes
Production companies
Marvel Television
ABC Studios
Bohemian Risk Productions
Original release
Network	Netflix
Release	November 17, 2017–
January 18, 2019
Related
Daredevil
Marvel's Netflix television series
Close ▲
Jon Bernthal reprises his role from Daredevil as Frank Castle / Punisher, a vigilante who uses lethal methods to fight crime. Ben Barnes, Amber Rose Revah, Jason R. Moore, and Deborah Ann Woll also star. They are joined by Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Daniel Webber, Paul Schulze, Michael Nathanson, and Jaime Ray Newman in the first season, with Josh Stewart, Floriana Lima, and Giorgia Whigham joining for the second season. A television series centered on the Punisher received a put pilot commitment at Fox in 2011, but that project fell through. In June 2015, Bernthal was cast as the character to appear in the second season of Daredevil. Development on a spin-off began by January 2016, and Netflix ordered the series that April when the involvement of Bernthal and Lightfoot was confirmed. The series explores the title character's grief and violence, and was filmed in New York City.

The first season was released in its entirety on Netflix on November 17, 2017, followed by the second on January 18, 2019. They were met with mixed reviews, but received several accolades including a Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award nomination. Netflix cancelled The Punisher on February 18, 2019. All of the Marvel Netflix series were removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, after Disney regained the license for them. They began streaming on Disney+ from March 16. Bernthal will reprise his role as Frank Castle in the upcoming Marvel Studios Disney+ series Daredevil: Born Again.

Premise
After exacting revenge on those responsible for the death of his family, the first season finds former Force Recon Marine Frank Castle, known throughout New York City as "the Punisher", uncovering a larger conspiracy beyond what was done to him and his family. The second season sees Castle, who has been living a quiet life on the road, drawn into the mystery surrounding the attempted murder of Amy Bendix, forcing him to decide if he should embrace his life as the Punisher.

Cast and characters
Main
Jon Bernthal as Frank Castle / Punisher:
A vigilante who aims to fight the criminal underworld by any means necessary, no matter how lethal the results. Daredevil season one showrunner Steven S. DeKnight said this version of Punisher would be "completely the Marvel version", as previous portrayals did not appear under the Marvel Studios / Marvel Television banner. However, Bernthal did study all the previous portrayals, saying, "once you devour and eat up as much as you can, my way is to make it as personal as possible". On how Castle resonates with him, Bernthal said, "He ain't got a fucking cape. He ain't got any superpowers. He's a fucking tortured, angry father and husband who's living in this unbelievable world of darkness and loss and torment." Bernthal added that there would be "a military component" in the series since Castle is "a soldier... [The series] will be somewhat centered on that". He also stated that "the character that was portrayed on Daredevil season two was sort of the origin tale of how this guy became the Punisher, why he put on the vest." Bernthal noted he "always want[ed] to preserve the essence of" Castle, who Bernthal described as "brutal", "damaged" and "tortured", by exploring "the pain and what's behind the violence and the reason why he's committing the violence" that is "utterly satisfying and addictive for him".
Ebon Moss-Bachrach as David Lieberman / Micro:
A former NSA analyst who assists Castle after faking his death. Regarding Micro's relationship with Castle, Moss-Bachrach said, "We have found ourselves with common enemies and it's a marriage of convenience." Moss-Bachrach also felt the comics version of the character was "a one-trick pony", supplying equipment to Castle, but that the character gets "interesting when their relationship gets bad" and hoped to explore that in the series.
Ben Barnes as Billy Russo / Jigsaw: Castle's former best friend from when they served in Force Recon together. Russo runs Anvil, a private military corporation. In season 2, he develops scars on his face, memory loss, and a broken mind like a "jigsaw puzzle" after Castle bashes his head into a mirror at the end of the first season.
Amber Rose Revah as Dinah Madani:
An Iranian-American DHS Special Agent, stationed in Afghanistan, who returns to New York City for an investigation that leads her to cross paths with Castle. Revah noted that Madani "sees herself as American – that's what her being is, that's what she wants to protect, that's why she does what she does." As Madani is not based on a character from the comics, Revah's "research was based more on Homeland and what it's like for those people, and the logical processes the character would be going through. I think, for a lot of actors, if you're playing someone from comics, you probably feel you have some sort of responsibility to represent this character in a light that reflects how they were represented in the comic books. Because I didn't have that, it probably let me be more open in my representation." Revah spoke with actual Homeland officers as well as Iranian people "to make that [part of the character] authentic." A special shotgun was made for Revah to use, designed for her stature.
Daniel Webber as Lewis Wilson: A young U.S. Army veteran struggling with his new life as a taxi driver. He attends group therapy sessions with other servicemen under Curtis Hoyle. Webber felt his character was "a mirror to Frank's journey. These characters really look at each other and they both go separate routes."
Paul Schulze as William Rawlins III: The Director of Covert Operations at the CIA, who crosses paths with Castle due to their time in Afghanistan.
Jason R. Moore as Curtis Hoyle: A friend of Castle, one of the few people who knows he is alive and former U.S. Navy SARC, who became the leader of a therapy group after losing the lower part of his left leg in combat.
Michael Nathanson as Sam Stein: An HSI Special Agent and Madani's partner.
Jaime Ray Newman as Sarah Lieberman: David's wife.
Deborah Ann Woll as Karen Page:
A reporter at the New York Bulletin and Matt Murdock's former assistant, who befriended Castle after working on his case. Woll reprises her role from previous Marvel Netflix series. Regarding Page's continuing relationship with Castle, Woll said, "Frank has a soft spot in Karen's heart, and certainly with the dark history that Karen has, there are very few people she can share her authentic self with. Frank is someone who she could potentially fully open up to." She added, "there's something about Frank where [Karen] doesn't have to be ashamed of her darkest, deepest side of herself. She gets to be more honest with him".
Josh Stewart as John Pilgrim: A man with a calm exterior and a ruthless interior, who is forced to use the violent skills he developed in his former life once again. Stewart described him as an alt-right, Christian fundamentalist.
Floriana Lima as Krista Dumont: A psychotherapist for military veterans who works with Billy Russo. She is "very covered up" and "very uptight" in her personal life and "doesn't want to let anyone into her personal world," according to season two costume designer Lorraine Calvert.
Giorgia Whigham as Amy Bendix: A drifter with a mysterious past. She is a teenager who dislikes using profanity and is on the run from Pilgrim's men which leads to her eventually crossing paths with Castle.
Recurring
Introduced in season 1
Shohreh Aghdashloo as Farah Madani: Dinah's mother who runs a successful psychiatric practice.
Jordan Mahome as Isaac Lange: A military veteran who attends Hoyle's support groups.
Kelli Barrett as Maria Castle: Castle's deceased wife.
Aidan Pierce Brennan as Frank Castle Jr.: Castle's deceased son.
Nicolette Pierini as Lisa Castle: Castle's deceased daughter.
Ripley Sobo as Leo Lieberman: David and Sarah's daughter.
Kobi Frumer as Zach Lieberman: David and Sarah's son.
Tony Plana as Rafael "Rafi" Hernandez: The director of operations for Homeland Security and Madani's mentor.
Royce Johnson as Brett Mahoney: A Detective-Sergeant at the NYPD's 15th Precinct. Johnson reprises his role from previous Marvel Netflix series.
Introduced in season 2
Corbin Bernsen as Anderson Schultz: The co-leader of Testament Industries who hires John Pilgrim for his own nefarious purposes.
Annette O'Toole as Eliza Schultz: The co-leader of Testament Industries who hires John Pilgrim for her own nefarious purposes.
Jordan Dean as Jake Nelson: A fellow veteran who befriends and teams up with Billy Russo but suffers from drug addiction
Samuel Gomez as José: A fellow veteran who is part of Billy Russo's crew
Jimi Stanton as Tod: A fellow veteran who is part of Billy Russo's crew
Brett Bartholomew as Phillip: A fellow veteran who is part of Billy Russo's crew
Guest
Introduced in season 1
C. Thomas Howell as Carson Wolf: A corrupt senior DHS agent, supervisor of "Operation Cerberus", and Madani's supervisor who crosses paths with Micro and then later Castle. Wolf is revealed to be corrupt, working for Rawlins, who had Wolf frame Micro for being a traitor, and seemingly killed Micro, though Micro survived the attempt on his life. Wolf is captured and interrogated by Frank, before being killed after attempting to kill Frank.
Delaney Williams as O'Connor: A racist phony Vietnam veteran and NRA member who attends Hoyle's support groups. O'Connor is killed by Wilson for faking his military service.
Lucca de Oliveira as Donny Chavez: a newly appointed construction worker in New York City who tried to make friends with Castle.
Chris Critelli as Lance: a construction worker and low-level criminal who would often mock Castle.
James J. Lorenzo as Tony Gnucci: a member of the Gnucci Crime Family, an Italian-American criminal organization based in New York City.
Geoffrey Cantor as Mitchell Ellison: The editor-in-chief of the New York Bulletin and Page's boss. Cantor reprises his role from Daredevil.
Shez Sardar as Ahmad Zubair: An Afghan policeman who worked with Madani.
Jeb Kreager as Gunner Henderson: A Marine Corps veteran and member of the Cerberus Squad that worked alongside Castle and later went reclusive upon returning home. Gunner later reunited with Castle and helps him kill multiple Anvil agents sent to kill Gunner; Gunner is shot in the abdomen by one and bleeds to death.
Clancy Brown as Ray Schoonover: Castle's commanding officer in Afghanistan. Brown reprises his role from Daredevil.
Tim Guinee as Clay Wilson: Lewis Wilson's father who works to help his son get adjusted to his civilian life.
Rob Morgan as Turk Barrett: A low-level criminal who operates in Hell's Kitchen and Harlem. Morgan reprises his role from previous Marvel Netflix shows.
Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as Marion James: A Deputy Director of the CIA.
Andrew Polk as Morty Bennett: A colonel who was a member of Cerberus Squad and worked under Rawlins. Morty is killed by Russo after being used as bait for Castle.
Rick Holmes as Stan Ori: A U.S. Senator who is interviewed by Karen Page on his gun control views.
Houshang Touzie as Hamid Madani: Dinah's father who is a doctor.
NY1 anchors Pat Kiernan, Roma Torre, and Stacy-Ann Gooden cameo as themselves.

Introduced in season 2
Alexa Davalos as Beth Quinn: A single mother in Ecorse, Michigan who runs Lola's Roadhouse and briefly takes an interest in Castle.
Jagger Nelson as Rex Quinn: Beth's son who takes a liking to Castle.
Avery Mason as Ringo: A bouncer and bodyguard who works at Lola's Roadhouse.
Michael Pemberton as Lieutenant Ferrara: a corrupt police officer contacted by Pilgrim to cover his activity in Michigan.
Teri Reeves as Marlena Olin: A tough mercenary who works for Pilgrim.
Alex Notkin as Sergei Konchevsky: An ally to Amy who gets tortured by Pilgrim.
Joe Holt as Sheriff Roy Hardin: A tough and disciplined sheriff in Larkville, Ohio who aids Castle.
Brandon Gill as Deputy Ken Ogden: One of Hardin's deputies and Bruce's brother.
Jamie Romero as Deputy Murphy: One of Hardin's deputies.
Rudy Eisenzopf as Deputy Dobbs: One of Hardin's deputies.
Donald Webber Jr. as Bruce Ogden: An inmate at Larkville County Sheriff Station and Ken's brother.
Ilia Volok as Kazan: A Russian gang member.
Keith Jardine as a Russian thug under Kazan's employ.
Allie McCulloch as Rebecca Pilgrim: Pilgrim's loving and sick wife.
Zell Steele Morrow as Michael Pilgrim: Pilgrim's son.
Henry Boshart as Lemuel Pilgrim: Pilgrim's son.
Thomas G. Waites as Arthur Walsh: A pedophilic foster parent who sexually abused Russo as a child.
Charles Brice as Bobby: A fellow veteran who is part of Billy Russo's crew
Brett Diggs as Anton: A fellow veteran who is part of Billy Russo's crew
Dikran Tulaine as Nikolai Poloznev: A Russian businessman and gangster.
Todd Alan Crain as David Schultz: A senator and the Schultzes' gay son.
Derek Goh as Danny: a young member of Pilgrim's former gang who he hired to track down both Castle and Bendix.
Jordyn DiNatale as Shantel: Bendix's friend who lives in New York City and former member of Fiona's Crew hired by Konchevsky.
Kevin Chapman as Kusack: An old acquaintance of Pilgrim who is a white supremacist.
Joseph D. Reitman as "Creepy" Ed Zatner: A mortician and ally of Karen Page with a strange obsession with women's shoes.
Shooter Jennings, Ted Russell Kamp, James Douglass, John F. Schreffler Jr. and Aubrey Richmond all appear as themselves.

Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally released
1	13	November17,2017
2	13	January18,2019
Season 1 (2017)
Main article: The Punisher (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"3AM"	Tom Shankland	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
2	2	"Two Dead Men"	Tom Shankland	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
3	3	"Kandahar"	Andy Goddard	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
4	4	"Resupply"	Kari Skogland	Dario Scardapane	November17,2017
5	5	"Gunner"	Dearbhla Walsh	Michael Jones-Morales	November17,2017
6	6	"The Judas Goat"	Jeremy Webb	Christine Boylan	November17,2017
7	7	"Crosshairs"	Andy Goddard	Bruce Marshall Romans	November17,2017
8	8	"Cold Steel"	Antonio Campos	Felicia D. Henderson	November17,2017
9	9	"Front Toward Enemy"	Marc Jobst	Angela LaManna	November17,2017
10	10	"Virtue of the Vicious"	Jim O'Hanlon	Ken Kristensen	November17,2017
11	11	"Danger Close"	Kevin Hooks	Felicia D. Henderson	November17,2017
12	12	"Home"	Jet Wilkinson	Dario Scardapane	November17,2017
13	13	"Memento Mori"	Stephen Surjik	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
Close ▲
Season 2 (2019)
Main article: The Punisher (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
14	1	"Roadhouse Blues"	Jim O'Hanlon	Steve Lightfoot	January18,2019
15	2	"Fight or Flight"	Jim O'Hanlon	Steve Lightfoot	January18,2019
16	3	"Trouble the Water"	Jeremy Webb	Ken Kristensen	January18,2019
17	4	"Scar Tissue"	Iain B. MacDonald	Angela LaManna	January18,2019
18	5	"One-Eyed Jacks"	Stacie Passon	Dario Scardapane	January18,2019
19	6	"Nakazat"	Jamie M. Dagg	Christine Boylan	January18,2019
20	7	"One Bad Day"	Jet Wilkinson	Felicia D. Henderson	January18,2019
21	8	"My Brother's Keeper"	Michael Offer	Bruce Marshall Romans	January18,2019
22	9	"Flustercluck"	Salli Richardson-Whitfield	Steve Lightfoot & Ken Kristensen	January18,2019
23	10	"The Dark Hearts of Men"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Steve Lightfoot & Angela LaManna	January18,2019
24	11	"The Abyss"	Meera Menon	Laura Jean Leal	January18,2019
25	12	"Collision Course"	Stephen Kay	Dario Scardapane	January18,2019
26	13	"The Whirlwind"	Jeremy Webb	Steve Lightfoot	January18,2019
Close ▲
Production
See also: Production of season 1 and season 2
Development
In October 2011, ABC Studios sold a script based on the Punisher to Fox, who gave the project a put pilot commitment. The series would be an hour-long procedural following NYPD detective Frank Castle, "whose alter ego is that of a vigilante seeking justice for those failed by the court system." Ed Bernero was attached as executive producer, but by May 2012, the project had not moved forward. A year later, the character's film rights reverted to Marvel from Lionsgate. In June 2015, Jon Bernthal was announced as cast as Frank Castle in the second season of Daredevil on Netflix. The series was the first of several live action series provided to Netflix by Marvel Television and ABC Studios, with subsequent series featuring Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, and Iron Fist all leading up to a miniseries based on the Defenders.

By January 2016, ahead of the Daredevil season two release, Netflix was in "very early development" on a spin-off series titled The Punisher, and was looking for a showrunner. The series would be centered on Bernthal as Castle, and was described as a stand-alone series, outside of the series leading up to The Defenders. Head of Marvel Television and executive producer Jeph Loeb implied that Marvel Television had not instigated the development of the spin-off and were focusing on making "the best 13 episodes of Daredevil season two" at the time, but did say, "I'm never going to discourage a network from looking at one of our characters and encouraging us to do more ... If we are lucky enough that through the writing, through the direction, through the actor that people want to see more of that person, terrific." Loeb stated a month later that the reports about the potential spin-off were "something that people are speculating on, as opposed to something that's actually happening."

In April 2016, Netflix officially ordered a full 13-episode season of The Punisher, confirmed Bernthal's involvement, and named Steve Lightfoot as executive producer and showrunner. Loeb, Cindy Holland, and Jim Chory also serve as executive producers. A second 13-episode season was ordered in December 2017.

Writing
Lightfoot noted that "anti-heroes with dark pasts, that are morally grey, are always interesting to write." On deciding to work on The Punisher, Lightfoot stated, "I was drawn to a guy who is dealing with grief – how does he do that?... We talked a lot as we developed the show that once you take hold of the hand of violence it's impossible to let it go. That relationship to violence really interested me, not just the fact he has the ability to use it but also the cost of it." Lightfoot was inspired by the Bourne film series and the film American Sniper when approaching the series.

Casting
Bernthal promoting The Punisher at the 2017 San Diego Comic-Con
Bernthal promoting The Punisher at the 2017 San Diego Comic-Con
Bernthal had been cast as Castle in June 2015 to appear in the second season of Daredevil, and was confirmed to be reprising the role for the spin-off in April 2016. That September, Ben Barnes was cast in the series in an unspecified series regular role. The next month, set photos revealed that Deborah Ann Woll would reprise her Daredevil role as Karen Page, while Barnes was announced as playing Billy Russo, and Ebon Moss-Bachrach and Amber Rose Revah also joined the series, as David Lieberman / Micro and Dinah Madani, respectively. At New York Comic Con, Bernthal confirmed Woll as a co-star. At the end of October, Marvel announced the additional casting of Daniel Webber as Lewis Wilson, Jason R. Moore as Curtis Hoyle, Paul Schulze as William Rawlins, Jaime Ray Newman as Sarah Lieberman, and Michael Nathanson as Sam Stein.

For the second season, Bernthal, Barnes, Revah, Moore, and Woll all reprise their roles. They are joined by Josh Stewart as John Pilgrim, Floriana Lima as Krista Dumont, and Giorgia Whigham as Amy Bendix, who were cast in February 2018. In May 2018, Corbin Bernsen and Annette O'Toole were announced as joining the cast as Anderson and Eliza Schultz, respectively.

Filming
Filming for the series takes place in New York City, including Brooklyn, and Astoria, Queens.

Music
In April 2017, Tyler Bates was announced as the composer for The Punisher, after previously composing for Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2.

Release
The Punisher was released on the streaming service Netflix, worldwide. The episodes for each season were released simultaneously, as opposed to a serialized format, to encourage binge-watching, a format which has been successful for other Netflix series. Despite being branded as a "Netflix Original", The Punisher was licensed to Netflix from Disney.

The Punisher was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, along with the other Marvel Netflix series, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. Disney opted not to have Netflix pay a large licensing fee to retain the distribution rights for the series, and instead announced that all the series would be made available on Disney+ on March 16 in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand, and in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022. In the United States, revised parental controls were introduced to the service to allow the more mature content of the series to be added, similarly to the controls that already exist for other regions that have the Star content hub.

Reception
Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the first season holds a 68% approval rating with an average rating of 6.7/10 based on 80 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "A rocky start can't keep The Punisher from pushing the boundaries of Marvel's TV universe with a fresh take on the comics-derived action thriller." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 55 out of 100, based on 20 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".

On Rotten Tomatoes, the second season holds a 62% approval rating with an average rating of 6.7/10 based on 37 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "The Punisher's second season leaves fans torn between the undeniably action-packed fun and the underwhelming portrayal of the charismatic Frank Castle." On Metacritic, it was assigned a score of 58 out of 100, based on 6 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".

Accolades
The series won a BMI Streaming Media Award at the 2020 BMI Film & TV Award, was nominated for one Golden Reel Award, five Golden Trailer Awards, one Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award, and four Saturn Awards, ultimately winning for Best New Media Superhero Series.

Cancellation and future
The series was canceled on February 18, 2019. Prior to The Punisher's cancellation, Kevin A. Mayer, chairman of Walt Disney Direct-to-Consumer and International, noted that, while it had not yet been discussed, it was a possibility that Disney+ could revive the other cancelled Marvel Netflix series. Hulu's senior vice president of originals Craig Erwich also said that the streaming service was open to reviving the former Netflix series. Bernthal will reprise his role as Frank Castle / Punisher in the Marvel Studios Disney+ series, Daredevil: Born Again (2024).

Notes
References
External links
The Punisher
More
The Punisher (season 1)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jon Bernthal
Punisher in other media
Marvel Television
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about The Punisher (season 1)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The first season of the American streaming television series The Punisher, which is based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, sees Frank Castle uncover a conspiracy while seeking revenge for the death of his family. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films and other television series of the franchise. The season was produced by Marvel Television in association with ABC Studios and Bohemian Risk Productions, with Steve Lightfoot serving as showrunner.

Quick facts: The Punisher, Starring, Country of origin, No... ▼
Close ▲
Jon Bernthal stars as Castle, alongside Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Ben Barnes, Amber Rose Revah, Daniel Webber, Paul Schulze, Jason R. Moore, Michael Nathanson, Jaime Ray Newman, and Deborah Ann Woll. Development on The Punisher as a spin-off from Daredevil began by January 2016, and it was ordered to series in April. Lightfoot was announced as executive producer and showrunner, with Bernthal and Woll reprising their roles from Daredevil. Filming took place in New York City from October 2016 to April 2017. Practical effects were augmented by the visual effects department, including the addition of muzzle flashes and gore to fight scenes. The season explores post-traumatic stress disorder for military veterans, and depicts "all sides" of the United States gun control debate.

The season premiered in New York City on November 6, 2017, with the full season of thirteen episodes released on November 17 on Netflix, and received mixed to positive reviews, with Bernthal's performance, action sequences and improvements to its source material from the previous films gaining praise, but criticism towards its pacing and amount of violence. A surprise release had been planned for October, but was cancelled following the 2017 Las Vegas shooting. A second season was ordered in December 2017.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"3AM"	Tom Shankland	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
Frank Castle, as the "Punisher", hunts down and eliminates the last members of the gangs who killed his family. Six months later, he is awakened at 3:00 every morning by nightmares of his family's deaths. Castle passes much of his time working, taking down an old building. This angers the other workers, who are denied extra pay due to Castle's overtime. He also visits Curtis Hoyle, a veteran that Castle served alongside before his family died, and mentions that his time in Afghanistan involved some activities that he did not want to discuss. A new worker, Donny Chavez, attempts to befriend Castle, and proves himself to be eager to please the other workers. He agrees to help them steal money from a local gang, but he accidentally reveals his identity to the gangsters. The others attempt to kill Chavez at the worksite, but Castle is there and kills them first. He then kills the gangsters before they can hunt Chavez. Meanwhile, Homeland Security agent Dinah Madani begins investigating Castle's Afghanistan troop, believing they killed her previous partner.
2	2	"Two Dead Men"	Tom Shankland	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
A man calling himself "Micro" monitors cameras around New York City, and begins tracking Castle from the building where he murdered the gangsters. He contacts Castle and tells him to check a disc that he had left for Castle at his old family home; the disk contains footage of Castle and his unit in Kandahar, torturing and murdering Madani's partner Ahmad Zubair. Madani had that video before it was stolen, and now wants to discuss Castle—who is believed to be dead—with his old army friend Billy Russo. Her superior Carson Wolf forbids her from this, but she convinces him to use Russo's new business Anvil for field training, and talks to Russo then. Castle's journalist friend Karen Page agrees to help him find Micro, and learns that he is former NSA analyst David Lieberman, who was caught leaking secrets and was believed to be killed. Wolf covered up the story, so Castle tortures and kills him, learning that the death of his family was just one attempt to kill him. He is then able to follow Lieberman back to his base of operations.
3	3	"Kandahar"	Andy Goddard	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
Castle tortures Lieberman, and learns that as an NSA analyst, Lieberman had been sent the video of Zubair's murder for assessment, and chose to act with his conscience and send it to Madani. Soon after, Wolf hunted Lieberman down with special forces, shooting him and framing him for a crime. The shot hit Lieberman's cellphone and he was able to go underground. Lieberman gets the upper-hand on Castle, who reveals that in Kandahar he was selected for a special unit, Cerberus, alongside Russo, and they were used by a mysterious agent to hunt down and kill high value targets. Castle had not known who Zubair was when he was ordered to kill him, and had grown increasingly disillusioned with his command. When they ignored his and Russo's advice and went ahead with a mission that killed several other members of Cerberus, Castle was able to complete the mission in an intense killing spree, but he and Russo then transferred from the unit. Now, Castle agrees to work with Lieberman to hunt down those behind Cerberus.
4	4	"Resupply"	Kari Skogland	Dario Scardapane	November17,2017
Requiring weapons and ammunition, Castle gets Lieberman to search law enforcement databases for known shipments of guns. Castle follows a lead to dealer Turk Barrett, but finds that the shipment was a special delivery and does not serve their needs. Barrett says that the main shipment is going to someone else, and Lieberman soon finds that Homeland security is working on an operation to buy the shipment in hopes of arresting those selling the weapons. Madani, now acting-Special Agent in Charge, wishes to investigate Wolf's murder, but is warned against pursuing the matter by another superior, and is instead told to focus on the weapons operation. She helps coordinate the operation, the plans for which Lieberman learned by hacking into Homeland security. He and Castle are able to disrupt the agents and hijack the weapons, but they are pursued by Madani. Lieberman crashes into Madani's vehicle, seriously injuring her. Castle saves her life, revealing himself to her and explaining that he killed Wolf.
5	5	"Gunner"	Dearbhla Walsh	Michael Jones-Morales	November17,2017
Despite being told to take time off and recover, Madani returns to work intent on continuing her investigation and now focusing on Castle. Her team is interrogated regarding the failed weapons operation, but she does not reveal that Castle is alive, and instead convinces another agent, Sam Stein, to help her. She interviews Page, who later tells Castle about Madani's investigation. Meanwhile, William Rawlins—the agent in charge of Cerberus—receives a medal for his achievements during wartime, and is asked by the Deputy Director of the CIA Marion James to serve as her deputy when she is promoted. Lieberman points out that the video of Zubair's murder must have been made by one of the other Cerberus soldiers, and Castle believes it was Gunner Henderson, who also knew what they were doing was wrong. They find Henderson living in seclusion, but Rawlins sends soldiers to kill him, discovering that Castle is alive. Castle and Henderson are able to kill the attackers with Lieberman's guidance, but Henderson is fatally wounded.
6	6	"The Judas Goat"	Jeremy Webb	Christine Boylan	November17,2017
Lieberman calls the authorities to find Henderson's body, and gets Hoyle's help to tend to Castle's injuries. Hoyle later bails Lewis Wilson, a young veteran that he had been trying to help rehabilitate, out of jail; he had been arrested protesting for the right to bear arms, and had been abandoned by another veteran he had admired, O'Connor. Hoyle reveals that the latter had lied about serving, and Wilson finds and kills O'Connor. Madani and Russo sleep together, and he realizes that she is using him to investigate Castle. She tells him that Castle is alive, and Russo broadcasts a message that Lieberman picks up. Castle meets with Russo to explain that Cerberus was a front for a major drug operation, and that he is fighting to take down those responsible. Russo offers to give Castle a chance at a new life instead, but Castle turns him down. Madani finds Henderson's body, and deduces what happened. She also gains proof that Castle is alive from his blood being at the scene. Russo later meets with Rawlins, whom he is working with.
7	7	"Crosshairs"	Andy Goddard	Bruce Marshall Romans	November17,2017
Wilson considers committing suicide, before making homemade bombs. Russo tells Madani that he does not believe Castle is alive. She realizes that Henderson was only targeted after she had started investigating him, and that her office may be bugged; Madani and Stein find the device. Castle and Lieberman plan to take their next target, Col. Morty Bennett, one of the leaders of Cerberus. Rawlins and Russo expect this, and also discuss Madani's investigation, with Rawlins comfortable that she has no leads. He also tells Russo that he should have killed Castle when he had the chance. Castle infiltrates the military base where Bennet lives, but Russo is expecting him and attacks him with a group of soldiers. Castle fights them off, not knowing Russo is beneath a mask, while Lieberman gains remote access to Bennett's phone. Castle then escapes, being forced to injure a young soldier on his way. They track Bennett's phone to Rawlins, who has Russo kill Bennett. Castle attempts to shoot Rawlins, but he is standing behind bullet-proof glass.
8	8	"Cold Steel"	Antonio Campos	Felicia D. Henderson	November17,2017
Russo visits his mother in a psychiatric hospital, injecting her with a drug that she is addicted to. He later tells Madani that he grew up in the system. Lieberman and Castle identify Rawlins. The cameras that Lieberman is using to keep watch on his family go down, and he sends Castle to investigate. Castle has been spending time with Lieberman's wife Sarah since meeting her while investigating who "Micro" was, and finds out that she had disconnected the internet as punishment for her son, Zach. Castle reconnects the internet, and has some drinks with Sarah. She kisses him, but they both acknowledge that this is a mistake. She then asks Castle to intervene with Zach, and he realizes that the boy needs a father figure to spend time with. Knowing that she is being watched, Madani sets up a new operation, but releases false plans to be found. When Russo arrives at a warehouse with a team of mercenaries per that latter plan, he is ambushed by Homeland security. His team are all killed, but Russo is able to kill Stein and escape without Madani seeing him and is later consoling her over Stein's death.
9	9	"Front Toward Enemy"	Marc Jobst	Angela LaManna	November17,2017
Castle agrees to contact Madani about Rawlins, but while he and Lieberman are watching her to ensure she is not corrupt, Wilson's bombs go off around New York, killing several people and injuring others. He targeted those he considered to be anti-guns, as explained in a letter he sends to Page in the hopes that she will champion him standing up against the system and publish his letter in her paper. She goes on the radio to disavow Wilson, who anonymously calls in to threaten her. Castle recognizes Wilson from the radio, having met him when visiting Hoyle once, and has Lieberman find Wilson. Meanwhile, Hoyle searches for Wilson and upon finding, when he tries to stop him, Wilson beats Hoyle with his own prosthetic leg and ties him to another bomb. Castle comes across this scene, and convinces Wilson to disarm the bomb, but not before Wilson calls the police. Castle is chased from the scene, his face caught on camera. Lieberman goes to Madani and tells her about Rawlins, as Castle is identified on television as being alive, and labelled a bomber.
10	10	"Virtue of the Vicious"	Jim O'Hanlon	Ken Kristensen	November17,2017
Wilson targets Senator Stan Ori, an anti-gun proponent who is planning a fundraiser for victims of the bombings, and has hired Anvil as security. Wilson kills one of Russo's men and steals his uniform. Madani informs her superior Rafael Hernandez of everything she knows, and he informs her that the team from the warehouse were all ex-Anvil. Madani confronts Russo about this at the hotel where the fundraiser is to be held. Page arrives at the hotel to interview Ori before the fundraiser, during which Wilson blasts his way into the room and attempts to shoot Ori. Castle arrives to protect them, but Wilson reveals that he is wearing an explosive belt and takes Page hostage. Wilson and Page enter an elevator, while Castle is chased down the stairs by Anvil soldiers until he is confronted by Madani and Russo. Russo shoots at Castle and then refuses to let Madani arrest him; she realizes that he had killed Stein. Before the standoff escalates, police arrive and arrest Russo and Madani. Castle escapes and finds Wilson. Castle helps Page get free, and Wilson blows himself up. Castle escapes while Det. Sgt. Brett Mahoney investigates and interrogates the survivors, including Russo, Ori, Page and Madani, all of whom are released from police custody.
11	11	"Danger Close"	Kevin Hooks	Felicia D. Henderson	November17,2017
Castle ends his partnership with Lieberman and takes up the mantle of the Punisher again. Madani confronts Russo about Stein's death, but he pretends to not be involved. She convinces Hernandez to take further action anyway, and they go to James, telling her about Rawlins and Cerberus. With the police searching for Castle, Zach goes against Sarah's wishes and calls the authorities. When police officers arrive with the intention of taking them away, Sarah's daughter Leo hides. Before Castle leaves Lieberman, they see footage from his house of Sarah and Zach being taken away. Castle sends Lieberman to find Leo, while he waits for Russo to trace his phone from Sarah's. A group of soldiers arrive at the base, and Castle kills them all, only stopping to question a soldier about where Russo, Sarah, and Zach are, though this is unsuccessful. James confronts Rawlins, who offers up Russo as a scapegoat to clear the name of the CIA, which she accepts on the condition that he resigns. Castle collects Madani, and they meet up with Lieberman and Leo.
12	12	"Home"	Jet Wilkinson	Dario Scardapane	November17,2017
Castle makes a deal with Russo to swap himself and Lieberman for Sarah and Zach's release; Lieberman has locked his computer containing all their files on Cerberus and Rawlins, and has a timer counting down on them. Castle officially confesses to his crimes for Madani, while Lieberman secretly does so only if their deal is changed: at the swap, Lieberman is apparently caught in the crossfire when Homeland agents arrive, with Castle being taken by Russo and Sarah and Zach going free. Lieberman then revealed to his family that this was a ruse so that he could be with them. While being held captive, Russo confesses to Castle that he knew of the plan to massacre Castle's family yet he did nothing to prevent it. Castle is tortured by Russo until he unlocks the computer, allowing them to destroy all of the files (not knowing that Lieberman has already given copies to Madani). Russo promises to kill Castle quickly in exchange, but Rawlins arrives to torture Castle himself, wanting revenge. Russo helps Castle get free, and Castle kills Rawlins. Russo then tries to kill Castle, but Madani arrives in time to stop this after being tipped off to their location by Lieberman.
13	13	"Memento Mori"	Stephen Surjik	Steve Lightfoot	November17,2017
Lieberman and Madani race Castle to her father, a doctor, who saves Castle's life. Russo kills a group of agents sent after him, and then finds Hoyle and holds him hostage. Castle arrives, and Russo agrees to meet with him that night, choosing to do so at the carousel where Castle's family died. Madani tracks Castle's phone there, and decides to follow him despite being told to take no further action by Hernandez and James. Castle and Russo fight, and when Madani arrives, Russo shoots her in the head. Castle eventually gets the upper hand, but chooses not to kill Russo. He instead smashes Russo's face into a pane of glass, permanently disfiguring him. Castle is taken into custody, while Madani and Russo are taken to a hospital, where they survive. Three days later, Hernandez and James free Castle, giving him a chance at a new life at the request of Madani. Russo is officially blamed for his crimes. After several hearings and debriefs, Lieberman is released and returns to his family. Castle joins Hoyle's support group for veterans.
Close ▲
Production
Development
By January 2016, ahead of the Daredevil season two release, Netflix was in "very early development" on a spin-off series titled The Punisher, and was looking for a showrunner. The series would be centered on Jon Bernthal as Frank Castle, and was described as a stand-alone series apart from those leading up to The Defenders crossover event. That April, Netflix officially ordered a full 13-episode season of The Punisher, confirmed Bernthal's involvement, and named Steve Lightfoot as executive producer and showrunner. Asked whether he would rather have a 10-episode season given the longer 13 episode-seasons have been criticized for other Marvel Netflix series, Lightfoot said that he wanted the season to be a "slow burn show" that was character-driven, and that he felt they had the right amount of story to fill the 13 episodes.

Writing
Lightfoot had a loose idea of what the "journey of Season 1" would be when he joined the series, and this was fleshed-out and altered in the writers room throughout work on the season. Executive producer Jeph Loeb said the season would ask the questions "Who is Frank? What is Frank going to do? And who's going to try and stop Frank?" Lightfoot chose not to adapt any specific version of the character from the comics and instead looked to the work that was done in Daredevil defining the character. That series' depiction was what got Lightfoot interested in the character, and he wanted it to dictate this series' direction. The Punisher begins with a teaser featuring Castle killing the gang members that he believes are responsible for his family's death, which is a conclusion to the character's story in Daredevil. The series then jumps ahead to the character "stuck in the past and sort of crippled by this grief". The season also depicts some events from before the second season of Daredevil, which Bernthal described as being "loose with chronology"; this includes an explanation of Castle's time serving in Kandahar, which had been mentioned in Daredevil and was something that Lightfoot felt this series should address.

As a fan of Westerns and 1970s urban thrillers, Lightfoot felt that the series should combine those ideas due to Castle's antihero persona being an archetype of Western films but set in the urban environment of New York City. Lightfoot looked to films from those genres as inspiration for tone and style, ideas, and themes for the series, and also looked to 1970s conspiracy thriller films due to Castle being a fugitive in the series and the general sense of paranoia. The series makes a reference to Marathon Man (1976), while Lightfoot described the first episode of the series as a modern "updating" of Shane (1953). Lightfoot also took inspiration from the Bourne film series and the film American Sniper (2014) for the series. Regarding his previous television series Hannibal, Lightfoot stated that he learned from that series' creator Bryan Fuller to make an antihero like Hannibal Lecter relatable to the audience by finding "something in them that's universal that we can all feel", such as Lector being lonely. Carrying this over to The Punisher, Lightfoot saw in Castle the idea of "a man whose family was taken from him at a young age" and that a series focused on him should be an exploration of his grief and how he responds to it. Lightfoot felt that even audience members who did not agree with Castle's actions would be able to go on a "journey" with the character if they understood this aspect of him.

"We talked a lot as we developed the show that once you take hold of the hand of violence it's impossible to let it go. That relationship to violence really interested me, not just the fact he has the ability to use it but also the cost of it."

—Showrunner Steve Lightfoot on violence in The Punisher

Rather than show the "beautiful" scenes of horror that were created for Hannibal, Lightfoot wanted to follow the lead of the character's fight scenes in Daredevil by not shying away from the cost of the actual actions, feeling that showing the brutal reality of Castle's actions would better convey to the audience that "This stuff hurts, and it's not OK" rather than glossing over the violence which he felt would have been worse. He elaborated that he was unsure if the series was the most violent Marvel Netflix series, as he was simply taking the level of violence he saw depicted in Daredevil as a baseline for this series, and that it is important to remember that "a lot of what he's doing is wrong. We have to let the audience lose him at times and let him win them back. To just wholeheartedly be behind him wouldn't be right". Despite this, Lightfoot wanted to convey the character's feelings and thoughts to help the audience understand the character, and often used flashbacks or dreams featuring his family since Castle does not talk much and having constant flashbacks also represented how he is unable to stop thinking about them.

Lightfoot described Castle as a metaphor for "the fact that we've been sending men to war for 15 years now and then bringing them back and expecting them to just fit back in. Clearly, that isn't what happens." Having not served in the military himself, Lightfoot spent time with the rest of the series' writers reading first-person accounts and memoirs from real-life war veterans, and the series also had consultants from the military, the Special Forces, and the CIA including one military consultant who read every script of the series and gave notes. Noting that a vocal community of United States soldiers and veterans were fans of the Punisher character, Lightfoot and Bernthal ensured that the series was always respectful of the military and law enforcement despite Castle's actions being generally criminal; Lightfoot said it was an "interesting thing to be respectful of the police and at the same time, the character is beyond the law." Feeling that it was not his place to preach about the politics of vigilantism or the United States gun control debate, Lightfoot wanted to create a "body of characters where you feel like all sides and issues were given a voice so the audience can decide", from a veteran who is a "gentle group-therapy leader" to a "gun nut". When creating an original character for the series to serve as the "tough nemesis cop" who is hunting Castle, Lightfoot decided to "mix the paradigm up" by making the character female and his equal. Lightfoot noted that the writer's room, which included both men and women, had "a lot of fun" with this idea. They also wanted the character to be of Middle Eastern descent and be as big of a patriot as Castle and an action hero in her own right. This character became Dinah Madani. Lightfoot did not want the "spiderweb" of supporting characters in the series to be "sidekicks" to Castle, and instead have "their own narrative and their own story that was the most important thing to them".

Casting
The main cast for the season includes Bernthal as Frank Castle / Punisher, Ebon Moss-Bachrach as David Lieberman / Micro, Ben Barnes as Billy Russo, Amber Rose Revah as Dinah Madani, Daniel Webber as Lewis Wilson, Paul Schulze as William Rawlins, Jason R. Moore as Curtis Hoyle, Michael Nathanson as Sam Stein, Jaime Ray Newman as Sarah Lieberman, and Deborah Ann Woll as Karen Page. Bernthal and Woll both reprise their roles from Daredevil.

In August 2017, Shohreh Aghdashloo was revealed to be portraying Farah Madani, Dinah's mother, in a recurring role for the season. Also recurring in the season are Jordan Mahome as Isaac Lange, Kelli Barrett as Maria Castle, Aidan Pierce Brennan as Frank Castle Jr., Nicolette Pierini as Lisa Castle, Ripley Sobo as Leo Lieberman, Kobi Frumer as Zach Lieberman, and Tony Plana as Rafael Hernandez. Rob Morgan and Royce Johnson reprise their roles from previous Marvel Netflix series as Turk Barrett and Brett Mahoney, respectively. Geoffrey Cantor and Clancy Brown reprise their respective Daredevil roles as Mitchell Ellison and Ray Schoonover.

In addition to several actors portraying war veterans, including Mahome, the series also cast real-life war veterans as extras and supporting cast for scenes such as support group meetings. Mahome, whose father served in the military, found this to be a powerful experience and helpful for his acting in the series.

Design
Stephanie Maslansky, who served as costume designer for the first seasons of Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, and Iron Fist, had the choice between designing for The Defenders or for The Punisher due to a scheduling conflict between the two productions, and chose to work on The Defenders. Instead, Lorraine Calvert designed the costumes for The Punisher after introducing the look of the character in the second season of Daredevil; her take on the character's "beloved" comic-inspired costume balances the original design, Bernthal's needs as an actor and interpretation of the character, and Lightfoot's intentions for the tone of the series.

Filming
Filming began on October 3, 2016, in Brooklyn, New York, under the working title Crime. Locations for the production included Greenpoint, Brooklyn, the Williamsburg Bridge, Columbus Circle and Central Park West, Cortlandt Alley, Circle Line Downtown cruises, the Manhattan Family Court building, Long Island City, Grand Ferry Park in South Williamsburg, Brooklyn, Sunnyside, Queens, Pulaski Bridge, the Roosevelt Island and its steam plant, the Bronx County Courthouse, Newtown Creek, The Roosevelt Hotel, Astoria Park, Tudor City, Hunts Point, Bronx, the Forest Park Carousel, the Bronx–Whitestone Bridge, the "GoodFellas Diner" before it was damaged in a 2018 fire and the Mount Zion Cemetery, both in Maspeth, Queens, and in Astoria, Queens. A car chase for the season was filmed at the Brooklyn Navy Yard in night shoots, with Moss-Bachrach driving one of the cars. Filming for the season wrapped on April 9, 2017.

Visual effects
Visual effects supervisor Greg Anderson and vendor FuseFX returned from the first season of Luke Cage to create the visual effects for The Punisher, creating 855 visual effects shots across the season. Their team changed in size for each episode, but generally consisted of 15 to 20 people. Due to the realistic tone of the series, which does not feature any superpowers, the visual effects department had to work even harder than usual to ensure their effects were believable, with a focus on creating "gunplay, knifeplay, explosions and other real world effects." They preferred to augment practical effects rather than start from scratch to help with realism as well as the series' budget and schedule.

As an example of the work Fuse did during fight sequences, Anderson discussed the scene where Russo and his men attack Micro's basement. Though practical prop weapons were used for the fight, Fuse had to augment the action with computer generated blood, knives, and muzzle flashes, as well as a computer generated head that is blown apart by a shotgun. The sequence was thoroughly storyboarded and pre-visualized to plan out the exact visuals required. Because the scene, like many others throughout the season, required a dark environment the visual effects team had to work with the cinematography department to decide where the low-light should be practical and where color-grading could be used to alter a more brightly lit set given it is difficult to integrate visual effects with dark images. Conversely to this scene, a sequence such as when Russo blows up a hideout required minimal visual effects work because the explosion was shot practically, with Fuse mainly just adding some windows to the building that were removed for the explosion.

The most technically difficult scene of the season to create was in the first episode, where Castle shoots someone from across the Mexico–United States border. Anderson estimated that the scene was 90 percent digital, with the environment between Castle and his target created entirely by the visual effects department. So that Moore could portray amputee Curtis Hoyle, Fuse had to digitally replace his leg in several shots. This involved Moore wearing a green sleeve over his leg and Fuse replacing it with a stump. The company also had to recreate the background behind Moore's actual leg which was often the most difficult part, such as when he is getting out of bed and realistic-looking digital cloth needed to match with the actual sheets that were on set. Additionally, visual effects were used to augment cement in the sequence where people are thrown into it. The special effects department created a mixture to look like cement for use while filming the scene, but it ultimately did not look realistic on camera and had to be changed digitally.

Music
In April 2017, Tyler Bates was announced as the composer for The Punisher, after previously composing for Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2. In order to "get into the dark corners of the Punisher's mind," Bates played "more of a broken blues" guitar, which was augmented with talkbox effects and other "guitar noises", along with guitar-vol and melodica. On this style, Bates said, "The rough edges and broken nature of [music like this] leaves a great deal of space for emotion and interesting color—and a bit of an attitude. Otherwise it's not going to be an authentic expression of the idea. There's a darkness in there that I'm happy to tap into." A soundtrack album for the season was released digitally by Hollywood Records on November 17, 2017, in conjunction with the season's Netflix release. All music composed by Tyler Bates:

No.	Title	Length
1.	"The Punisher Main Title"	1:15
2.	"Quiet Reflection"	1:44
3.	"The Runaround"	3:11
4.	"Dig Deep"	1:15
5.	"Misdirection"	1:49
6.	"Lewis Gets the Boot"	2:04
7.	"Rampage"	1:14
8.	"Billy Motivates"	1:17
9.	"Hiding Evidence"	2:27
10.	"Judas"	4:09
11.	"Family Dinner"	1:20
12.	"Just in Time"	1:56
13.	"Made an Enemy"	1:13
14.	"Keep It Running"	1:40
15.	"Escape the Base"	3:44
16.	"Like a Soldier"	2:17
17.	"Heads Will Roll"	1:58
18.	"Frank's Choice"	3:36
19.	"Billy's Lair"	1:52
20.	"No More War to Fight"	1:38
21.	"The Punisher End Title"	1:11
Total length:	42:50
Marketing
Bernthal and Woll appeared at New York Comic Con in October 2016 to officially announce the start of production on the series and the latter's involvement, while Bernthal presented exclusive footage from the series at San Diego Comic-Con 2017. A teaser was revealed on Netflix in August 2017 after the credits of the final episode of The Defenders. Also in the month, the series' Twitter account revealed the episode titles as Morse code messages. In September 2017, the series' Instagram account released viral videos made to look like security footage, while episodic photos and a poster for the season with a redacted release date were also released. On September 20, the official trailer for the season was released. Andrew Liptak of The Verge said it "sets up The Punisher with its own distinct tone that's different from the other Marvel Netflix shows. It wades into government conspiracies and hacking, which is reminiscent of shows like CBS's Person of Interest or USA's Mr. Robot, but with more gunfire." Nerdist's Kendall Ashley called the trailer "intense, super bloody, and has [me] INCREDIBLY pumped for the show's premiere." She added that "if this trailer is any indication, The Punisher is definitely going to live up to fan expectations". Ashley felt the inclusion of "One" by Metallica in the trailer "helps paint Frank as a badass unlike any we've seen on the Marvel Netflix shows so far." Cooper Hood, writing for Screen Rant felt the trailer would "only increase the fever for" the series despite it not yet having a release date, with it more closely fitting the "mold" of the character than the more cryptic videos previously released. He also found it "well-cut" to the beat of the song, which he praised as "amplifying the intensity".

By the end of September, Netflix had updated their viral website for the New York Bulletin to include a profile page for Karen Page. After revealing her login credentials in a post on Daredevil's Facebook page, readers who visited Page's profile found images referencing Page's research into Castle from the second season of Daredevil. Bernthal and other members of the cast were scheduled to appear at New York Comic Con 2017 to promote the season, but the panel was cancelled after the 2017 Las Vegas Strip shooting. Two weeks later, a second trailer was released revealing the season's release date of November 17, 2017. Tom Philip at GQ was not very enthused with the trailer, saying it was "hard to get super jazzed about another gritty, ultra-violent, gun-loving, non-superhero show right now." He was critical of the "utilitarian-sounding writing" in the trailer, but felt the chemistry between Bernthal and Woll would be a reason to watch the series. Philip also felt the addition of Moss-Bachrach was "curious", and said "at least [the series is] a swing for the fences from a TV studio that tends to play it astoundingly safe." Scott Mendelson of Forbes noted that the gun violence sequences featured were mainly "flashbacks with military men doing military things in full fatigues or scenes of bad guys shooting at not-so-bad guys with heavy gunfire", which was a strong contrast to the first trailer. Mendelson felt this shift in the marketing strategy could have been in response to the Las Vegas shooting. TechCrunch's Darrell Etherington agreed with Mendelson, noting how the trailer "plays up Castle's motivations and the more human side of the story", while still looking "gritty and dark, [and] Bernthal's portrayal looking as strong as ever." Etherington also criticized the soundtrack of the trailer. The Punisher had its red carpet premiere on November 6, 2017, in New York City at the 34th Street AMC Loews theatre.

Release
The first season of The Punisher was released on November 17, 2017, on the streaming service Netflix, worldwide. In July 2016, Netflix COO Ted Sarandos had stated that The Punisher would not debut until 2018 at the earliest, following The Defenders' August 18, 2017 release, but in October 2016 Marvel confirmed the 2017 release instead.

In early September 2017, Dominic Patten and Denise Petski of Deadline Hollywood commented on the lack of specific release date for the season at the time, calling it "an unusual" and "rare move for Marvel and Netflix, who usually give a lot of lead-up to the launch" of their high-profile series. The pair felt with the increased marketing of the season, it would release "sooner rather than later". Allison Keene of Collider expressed irritation at this because she and other television journalists were unable to plan content without knowing the release date, while fans anticipating the series would watch it "whenever it appears" regardless of when the date is announced. Polygon's Susana Polo felt Marvel and Netflix would announce the date at their scheduled New York Comic Con 2017 panel in October, as the convention had been used in previous years to reveal "breaking fall Marvel/Netflix news". It was soon reported that this was indeed the case, with Netflix planning a surprise "drop" release of the season after the New York Comic Con panel, mimicking a strategy from the music industry where an artist's album is released "with little or no fanfare". However, Marvel and Netflix decided to delay the release of the season to later in 2017 following the Las Vegas shooting and subsequent cancelling of the panel. Two weeks later, the November 17 release was announced.

Regarding the decisions made concerning the New York Comic Con panel and the season's release, Loeb said that they were made "specifically because it was a week after a horrible, horrible incident. It hasn't changed the television series, the show is not predominantly about gun violence, and in fact it shows you the problems that occur in that world." Bernthal and Lightfoot felt delaying the release of the season "was the right decision" out of respect for the victims, with Lightfoot saying there was no reason to go ahead with the panel if it was going to upset "even one person involved" with the shooting. Moore had initially felt the season would not be released at all once the panel was cancelled. Between the Las Vegas shooting and subsequent delaying of the season, and the eventual November 17 release, the United States experienced another mass shooting with the Sutherland Springs church shooting. Bernthal hoped that these two shootings and the release of the season would together help further the discussion on gun violence, with "all sides of this debate" represented in The Punisher.

The season, along with the additional Punisher seasons and the other Marvel Netflix series, was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. The season became available on Disney+ in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand on March 16, ahead of its debut in Disney+'s other markets by the end of 2022.

Reception
Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 67% approval rating with an average rating of 6.70/10 based on 79 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "A rocky start can't keep The Punisher from pushing the boundaries of Marvel's TV universe with a fresh take on the comics-derived action thriller." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 55 out of 100, based on 20 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Summarizing the critical response to the entirety of the first season, GameSpot said reviews were "mixed." It received mixed to negative reviews from the LA Times and Salon.

The Washington Post said that Netflix had finally gotten the franchise "right" in a live-action in a way the prior three movies had failed to please fans. It gave the credit to the "soul" of the show and Bernthal as "one of Marvel's great casting gets" and made the show "a definitive adaptation that doubles as Netflix's best Marvel show to date." The Hollywood Reporter thought the first 13-episode season felt "at least twice the length it should be." The New York Times said "the action picks up as the season progresses, but The Punisher never quite gets in touch with the visceral roots of its material."

Esquire called the first season "a compelling and complex horror story about the military." The New York Times said that although the action picks up later in the first season, the slow pace made it less pulpy and more of a procedural thriller with a moody and psychological approach, particularly for its focus on PTSD. Variety also wrote positively of both the show and Bernthal's "seamless" performance, saying that "It's difficult to imagine better casting than Bernthal, who communicates so fluently with impassive silences, and is convincing both when he is being terribly violent and especially gentle." However, the review said the show took some time to show that it "transcends what it appears to be" at first, through Steve Lightfoot's "sharp, conscious storytelling." It also praised what it called anti-violence themes throughout the series. Vanity Fair wrote a less positive review, saying the show was as "psychologically confused as its antihero," as the writers had Castle target people for questionable reasons but portrayed him as justified. Vanity Fair wrote that "What the series neglects to examine, of course, is the fact that the Punisher is just as wicked as the villains he targets." Vulture described the show's attempts to "humanize and deepen" Castle beyond the violent "monster" he was in the original comics as "unpersuasive," and described a conflict between the showing wanting to be both The Best Years of Our Lives and Death Wish IV: The Crackdown at the same time.

Lightfoot defended the amount of violence in the series, reiterating that he did not feel that it was any more violent than Daredevil, that he believed it would be worse to not show the violent repercussions of Castle's actions because that would be "flippant" and not convey the real-life cost of the violence, and that Castle never "just blithely walk[s] away" from the violence as it always takes a physical or emotional toll on him. This extended to the repeated depictions of the death of Castle's wife, which Lightfoot did not think was in bad taste because it was about visualizing Castle's feelings, something he would not talk about; the deaths evolve through the season until they show Castle as the one killing her to signify that he blames himself for her death, which Lightfoot felt was important relationship building between Castle and the audience rather than just gratuitous violence.

Accolades
Collider ranked the season as the fourth best among superhero series of 2017.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Recipient(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	RECIPIENT(S)	RESULT	REF.
2018	IGN's Best of 2017 Awards	Best Action Series	The Punisher	Nominated
Golden Reel Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing - Episodic Short Form – Effects / Foley	"Memento Mori"	Nominated
Golden Trailer Awards	Best Action (TV Spot / Trailer / Teaser for a series)	"The Punisher – Reflections"	Nominated
Best Graphics (in a TV Spot / Trailer / Teaser for a series)	"The Punisher – Reflections"	Nominated
Best Sound Editing (in a TV Spot / Trailer / Teaser for a series)	"Family Man"	Nominated
Saturn Awards	Best Actor on Television	Jon Bernthal	Nominated
Best New Media Superhero Series	The Punisher	Won
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	Outstanding Stunt Coordination for a Drama Series, Limited Series, or Movie	The Punisher	Nominated
Close ▲
References
External links
The Punisher
Marvel Cinematic Universe
The Punisher
The Punisher (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
14	1	"Roadhouse Blues"	Jim O'Hanlon	Steve Lightfoot	January18,2019
Castle meets a young girl at a bar who insults him. The girl later calls a Russian gangster, requesting a meeting to sell some photos. Unknown to her, the gangster is tied to a chair and being interrogated by a man looking for the photos. After hanging up, he kills the gangster. Castle deals with a belligerent drunk who was hitting on and insulting the bartender, Beth. Afterward, she asks him to grab a drink at her place. The following night, Castle returns to the bar to meet up with Beth but notices a group of people searching the place while the young girl tries to avoid them. A fight ensues when Castle intervenes, but Beth gets shot. He carries her into a truck and heads for the nearest hospital, taking the girl with him. Castle shoots and injures more members of the group who were following them, reaches the hospital, and Beth survives. Later, Castle and the girl move on. Meanwhile, Dinah Madani visits Billy Russo's hospital room. Shortly after she leaves, he opens his eyes.
15	2	"Fight or Flight"	Jim O'Hanlon	Steve Lightfoot	January18,2019
Castle and the girl check into a motel in Larkville, Ohio, and she treats his wounds. The girl says her name is Rachel, and Castle interrogates her about why some people are trying to capture her. The gang that attacked them tracks them to their motel. A gunfight ensues in which Castle, Rachel, and one remaining henchwoman survive but all are arrested by local police. Madani visits Russo, who does not remember anything more recent than his time in the Marines. Madani has been visiting Russo almost every day and refuses to believe he has amnesia. Her mentor, Rafi, tries to convince her to stop. That night, she goes home and has a nightmare about Russo right before Castle wakes her up with a call asking for help from the Larkville County Sheriff Station. She says no, leaving him to defend the precinct from a group of attackers led by a mysterious man on his own.
16	3	"Trouble the Water"	Jeremy Webb	Ken Kristensen	January18,2019
In a flashback, the mysterious man is revealed to be John Pilgrim, a pious man and a former white supremacist with two sons and a sick wife who regularly attends a rural church. The wealthy couple financing the healthcare for his wife, Anderson and Eliza Schultz, tells him that they need him for a mission. In the present, Sheriff Roy Hardin finds that "Rachel" is one of many aliases used by the girl. With a small group of mercenaries, Pilgrim attacks Larkville County Sheriff Station, but Castle escapes his restraints and kills all of the assailants. Pilgrim manages to sneak up behind Castle, but before he can kill Castle, Madani shows up in a DHS helicopter to tell Castle that Russo has escaped the hospital. Castle takes Rachel for her protection, and all three leave for New York.
17	4	"Scar Tissue"	Iain B. MacDonald	Angela LaManna	January18,2019
Flashbacks show counseling sessions between Russo and psychotherapist Dr. Krista Dumont as he tries to recover his memories and strength amidst nightmares about a skull vest. It's revealed that he grew up in foster care and felt the military was the closest thing he had to a family. In the present, Madani hides Castle and Rachel at her apartment in New York. Castle then visits Curtis Hoyle for information about Russo, but the latter believes their former colleague does have amnesia. Castle recalls Russo telling him about being abused by one of his childhood caretakers, which he relays to Madani and Mahoney, with the former trying to find the abuser while the latter tries to follow her. Rachel breaks down and tells Castle she was part of a group of con artists from Chicago that had been paid by a Russian gangster to take pictures of a man kissing another man. After completing that job, the group was massacred while Rachel was out getting dinner for them, forcing her to flee. Meanwhile, Russo tracks down his abuser and kills him. Rachel discovers Castle's history as the Punisher. When she returns, she reveals her real name is Amy. Russo shows up at Dumont's apartment asking for help, covered in blood.
18	5	"One-Eyed Jacks"	Stacie Passon	Dario Scardapane	January18,2019
Frank coerces Turk Barrett to set up a meeting with the Russians who had contracted Amy's group for the photos. At the Russians' gym, they force Turk to set up an ambush for Frank at Turk's apartment. Frank instead goes to the gym and has a deadly confrontation with the remaining Russians while he extracts their leader's name, Nikolai Poloznev, a Russian businessman. Madani attends one of Hoyle's veteran group therapy sessions. Billy befriends one of the troubled veterans at a bar. The Schultzes send Pilgrim to New York, assigning him to go after the Russians. He kills the remaining Russians at the gym.
19	6	"Nakazat"	Jamie M. Dagg	Christine Boylan	January18,2019
Castle and Amy develop the photos in order to meet Poloznev. Pilgrim tracks down and threatens Madani to turn over Amy and Castle. After capturing Poloznev, Castle interrogates him, wherein the Russian explains that photos were supposed to be used to blackmail Senator David Schultz, a closeted homosexual who had been groomed into power by his parents, the highly religious Anderson and Eliza Schultz. Frank spares Poloznev's life and tells him to leave the country with his wife and daughter, but Pilgrim later finds Poloznev and executes him. Meanwhile, Russo befriends more veterans from Hoyle's therapy group. After violently beating a tow-truck driver for towing one of their cars, he convinces them that they are meant for violence and they make plans to rob a bank. Hoyle helps one of the veterans, learning that Russo is meeting with them. Russo returns to Dr. Dumont's and reads his file. He attacks her, causing her to stab him in the hand. He then kisses her and she reciprocates.
20	7	"One Bad Day"	Jet Wilkinson	Felicia D. Henderson	January18,2019
Russo and Dr. Dumont's relationship becomes sexual. Hoyle, Castle, and Madani track one of the veterans that had been meeting with Russo, with Castle brutally interrogating him. After they find out about the planned robbery, Castle and Hoyle go after Russo while Madani calls Mahoney to let him know about it. Russo and his gang then rob a payday loan business, but Castle confronts him while wearing the skull insignia vest from his nightmares.
21	8	"My Brother's Keeper"	Michael Offer	Bruce Marshall Romans	January18,2019
After Russo freezes upon seeing Castle, who he still believes to be his best friend, his gang grabs him and they attempt to flee. Castle chases them, so Russo leaves his vehicle to confront him while Curtis takes out a sniper going after Castle. Castle reveals he was the one responsible for his facial scars and memory loss. Both Castle and Hoyle hesitate when they get a shot at Russo, which lets him get away. Mahoney chases Castle and catches him, but Hoyle intervenes so he can get away. Russo kills the veterans who disagree with him after they get to the rendezvous before returning to Dr. Dumont, feeling betrayed by Castle. While in the car with Curtis, Castle comes to the realization that Billy has indeed lost his memory and it prevented him from taking the shot. Dumont supports Billy by implying that Castle is not the man Russo thought he was. He then makes plans to use the veterans to create an army to take on the world. Castle visits his family's graves for guidance after feeling reluctant to kill Russo while he is unaware of his past crimes.
22	9	"Flustercluck"	Salli Richardson-Whitfield	Steve Lightfoot & Ken Kristensen	January18,2019
Billy's army goes on a successful robbery and murder spree through the city. Anderson visits Pilgrim in order to set a bounty on Castle and Amy, so he contacts mercenaries. Russo breaks into Madani's apartment and confronts her on his forgotten memories, where she reveals that he killed Castle's family in an act of greed. Castle learns Russo's hideout is called Valhalla, but he is confronted by mercenaries after the bounty on his head and he kills them. Now aware of the bounty, Castle tries to contact Amy, only to find her gone. Amy left to try and flee the city by making contact with a friend from her former Chicago gang, who seemingly agrees to help. Amy finally answers Castle's calls and tells him of her plans, but finds out about the bounty on them. Amy's friend betrays her for said bounty and brings mercenaries after her. Castle arrives and kills all but one while Amy hides in a utility closet. The last mercenary is then disarmed by Amy and she shoots him before Castle kills him so that Amy is not the killer. Meanwhile, one of the mercenaries contacts Pilgrim while he's confronted by his former gang.
23	10	"The Dark Hearts of Men"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Steve Lightfoot & Angela LaManna	January18,2019
In a vicious fight, Pilgrim defeats his former gang while sustaining several injuries. He then falls back into drugs and alcohol during his recovery, doubting his purpose. Castle and Hoyle scout Valhalla, while Russo spies on them. In flashbacks, Madani visits Dr. Dumont to discuss Russo and Castle over a bottle of wine. Afterwards, Dumont surmises the only difference between them is Castle's belief that he is better than his victims due to his moral code. In the present, Castle attacks Valhalla, believing the women that attend the gang's parties every night have all left the building. Knowing he was going to attack, Russo sets up an ambush, wherein his gang brutally beats and cuts Castle. After Russo leaves, Castle kills everyone and goes after him. Enraged, he fires blindly into an upper office. Back in the flashback, Dumont tells Russo how to break Castle: destroy his sense of moral superiority over his prey. In the present, Castle enters the office while still chasing Russo and finds three dead women, causing him to freeze in guilt as the police arrive.
24	11	"The Abyss"	Meera Menon	Laura Jean Leal	January18,2019
Believing that he killed the three women during his attack on Valhalla, Castle allows himself to be arrested. While he's under armed guard by the NYPD at a hospital, Karen Page visits him. Amy attempts to free Castle before any hitmen can come after him when she learns of his capture. Madani tells Karen about evidence not adding up at Valhalla, so the two women head to the hospital's morgue to ask an attendant what he learned when he examined the corpses. They learn that the women were executed at close range by Russo and his men before Castle arrived. A rogue police officer attempts to first kill Castle, and then Amy, in order to collect the bounty on their heads. He is stopped by Madani and Karen, and they present their findings to Castle. Now that Castle knows how Russo set him up, he allows them to smuggle him and Amy out of the hospital. The escape is thwarted by Mahoney, who attempts to transport Castle to a nearby police precinct in a stolen ambulance, unaware that Pilgrim is pursuing them.
25	12	"Collision Course"	Stephen Kay	Dario Scardapane	January18,2019
Pilgrim ambushes Mahoney and Castle, pushing their ambulance off a freeway bridge. Before he can finish the job, he is knocked down by Madani's car. While she searches for his body, he steals her car just as Castle saves Mahoney from the ambulance's burning wreckage. Castle obtains the address to Senator Schultz's residence and kidnaps him for interrogation in regards to finding Pilgrim. Meanwhile, Pilgrim discovers the location of Hoyle's trailer from Madani's on-board GPS and briefly interrogates him. Amy arrives at the trailer and Pilgrim knocks out Hoyle while she escapes. He returns to his hotel, unaware that Amy has hidden herself in his car. Realizing that Dumont is in league with Russo, Madani heads to her residence to confront her, only to push Dumont out of her apartment window in self-defense after the psychotherapist attacks her.
26	13	"The Whirlwind"	Jeremy Webb	Steve Lightfoot	January18,2019
After witnessing Dumont's fall, Russo tries to kill Madani in retaliation, but is mortally shot by her and forced to escape when the police arrive. Meanwhile, Amy notifies Castle of Pilgrim's whereabouts, only to be kidnapped by the gunman during the ensuing shootout. Hoyle frees Senator Schultz and turns him over to Mahoney, who decides to not arrest Curtis for his involvement. Pilgrim and Castle engage in a brutal hand-to-hand fight, with the latter coming out on top. After being asked by Pilgrim to spare his sons, Castle uses the gunman to secure a path to the Schultz residence. After a botched underground surgery, Russo takes shelter in Hoyle's workplace basement, where he waits for Curtis to sit with him until he dies. Castle, however, arrives instead and executes him. Later, Castle and Amy confront the Schultzes in their mansion. Eliza tries to kill Amy, but Castle kills the Schultz matriarch instead, and gives her husband a gun to use on himself. As the pair leave, Anderson commits suicide. With Russo and the Schultzes dispatched, Castle, Pilgrim and Amy go their separate ways. Dumont is revealed to have survived her fall. Three months later, Castle resumes his activities as the Punisher while Madani works for the C.I.A.
Close ▲
