
Search Wikipedia
The Gifted (American TV series)
2017 American superhero television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
List of NCIS episodes
List of Supernatural episodes
List of NCIS: Los Angeles episodes
DEAR WIKIWAND AI, LET'S KEEP IT SHORT BY SIMPLY ANSWERING THESE KEY QUESTIONS:
Can you list the top facts and stats about The Gifted (American TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The Gifted is an American superhero television series created for Fox by Matt Nix, based on Marvel Comics' X-Men properties, set in an alternate timeline to the X-Men film series where the X-Men have disappeared. The show is produced by 20th Century Fox Television in association with Marvel Television, with Nix serving as showrunner.

The Gifted
The_Gifted_%28Marvel_Television_series_logo%29.svg
Genre
Action
Adventure
Science fiction
Superhero
Drama
Created by
Matt Nix
Based on
Marvel Comics
Starring
Stephen Moyer
Amy Acker
Sean Teale
Natalie Alyn Lind
Percy Hynes White
Coby Bell
Jamie Chung
Blair Redford
Emma Dumont
Skyler Samuels
Grace Byers
Composers
John Ottman
David Buckley
Country of origin
United States
Original language
English
No. of seasons
2
No. of episodes
29
Production
Executive producers
Stan Lee
Alan Fine
Karim Zreik
Joe Quesada
Jim Chory
Jeph Loeb
Len Wiseman
Simon Kinberg
Bryan Singer
Lauren Shuler Donner
Matt Nix
Producer
Neal Ahern
Production locations
Dallas, Texas
Atlanta, Georgia
Running time
45–47 minutes
Production companies
Flying Glass of Milk Productions
The Donners' Company
Bad Hat Harry Productions
Kinberg Genre
Marvel Television
ABC Signature Studios
20th Century Fox Television
Original release
Network
Fox
Release
October 2, 2017 –
February 26, 2019
Related
Legion
The series stars Stephen Moyer and Amy Acker as ordinary parents who take their family on the run after they discover their children's mutant abilities. Sean Teale, Natalie Alyn Lind, Percy Hynes White, Coby Bell, Jamie Chung, Blair Redford, and Emma Dumont also star in the show, with Skyler Samuels and Grace Byers joining them with the second season. The series received a put pilot commitment at Fox after a previous attempted X-Men television series did not move forward at the network in 2016; The Gifted was ordered to series in May 2017.

The Gifted's first season aired from October 2, 2017, to January 15, 2018, and consisted of 13 episodes. It received mostly positive reviews from critics and "solid" viewership. The second season began airing on September 25, 2018, consisting of 16 episodes. On April 17, 2019, Fox canceled the series after two seasons.

Premise
Two ordinary parents take their family on the run from the government when they discover that their children have mutant abilities, and join an underground community of mutants who have to fight to survive. At the end of the first season several members of the underground leave to join the Inner Circle, and the second season sees conflict between these groups as well as others with their own extreme ideologies.

Cast and characters
Main article: List of The Gifted characters
Stephen Moyer as Reed Strucker:
A father of mutants trying to balance his family responsibilities with his job as a district attorney. It is later revealed that Reed is a mutant with the ability to generate and manipulate energy, as well as disintegrate matter. Moyer said of the character, "He thinks he's doing the right thing by moving [the mutants]. He does know these camps aren't particularly nice. He knows a few people he's captured have disappeared. He also knows this could happen to his kids. He has no choice but to go on the run."
Amy Acker as Caitlin Strucker:
A mother and nurse struggling with her "increasingly challenging" teenage children. Showrunner Matt Nix said that though Caitlin does not have mutant powers, she is not "just a mom" or "just the doctor" in the series, and "over the course of the show I really love the idea of showing the evolution of a suburban mom into an underground warrior."
Sean Teale as Marcos Diaz / Eclipse:
A rebellious mutant who can absorb and manipulate photons. Eclipse was rejected by his human parents, and grew up smuggling drugs from Mexico to the United States. The mutant underground uses him to smuggle mutants to safety in Mexico. The character was created for the series, but has had his powers compared to Sunspot and his personality to Wolverine and Scott Summers.
Natalie Alyn Lind as Lauren Strucker:
One of the series' central children, a "perfect" kid. Her mutant power allows her to create force fields by pushing together molecules of air or water.
Percy Hynes White as Andy Strucker:
One of the series' central children, a sensitive loner who keeps to himself. His mutant power is a form of telekinesis, being able to pull things apart at a molecular level with his mind.
Coby Bell as Jace Turner:
A man struggling with the cold-blooded requirements of his job. Turner is a Sentinel Services agent, trying to find the Struckers and the other mutants. Nix said the character is "more than just a villain hoping to round up every last superpowered human," but is instead trying to balance protecting society with taking away the rights of mutants.
Jamie Chung as Clarice Fong / Blink:
A "sarcastic, lively" mutant with teleportation powers. An "independently minded" member of the mutant underground, Blink begins the series using her abilities as "a way out of situations she doesn't want to be in", but her abilities and relationship to them evolve throughout the series. Chung wears heavy-duty contact lenses to portray Blink's mutant green eyes, and also has pink markings on her face.
Blair Redford as John Proudstar / Thunderbird:
A strong-willed mutant possessing superhuman strength, durability, enhanced healing and superhuman senses, leader of the underground community. Nix said the character is "dealing with his own issues of feeling the weight of thousands of years of Apache history and mutant history and an obligation to both families."
Emma Dumont as Lorna Dane / Polaris:
A brave and loyal mutant whose abilities include controlling magnetism. She is introduced as being "unstable" due to bipolar disorder. Nix explained that, within the series, there is "some awareness" that Polaris is the daughter of Magneto, leading to the question "does she accept the mantle of her birthright? Is it her job to be Magneto in his absence?" The character is depicted with green hair, as she is in the comics, but "subdued shades of green".
Skyler Samuels as the Frost Sisters:
Esme, Sophie, and Phoebe Frost are telepathic triplets with their own agenda, separate from those of the mutant underground, Sentinel Services, and Trask Industries. The effect of the three characters together was created with a mixture of effects: split-screening, green-screening, and face replacements over doubles when Samuels worked with two other actresses portraying the other sisters.
Grace Byers as Reeva Payge:
Leader of the "Inner Circle" with an elite band of followers who is introduced in the second season. She possesses destructive sonic powers.
Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1
13	October 2, 2017	January 15, 2018
2
16	September 25, 2018	February 26, 2019
Season 1 (2017–18)
Main article: The Gifted (season 1)
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"eXposed"	Bryan Singer	Matt Nix	October 2, 2017	1LAJ01	4.90
2	2	"rX"	Len Wiseman	Matt Nix	October 9, 2017	1LAJ02	3.79
3	3	"eXodus"	Scott Peters	Rashad Raisani	October 16, 2017	1LAJ03	3.46
4	4	"eXit strategy"	Karen Gaviola	Meredith Lavender & Marcie Ulin	October 23, 2017	1LAJ04	3.36
5	5	"boXed in"	Jeremiah Chechik	Jim Campolongo	October 30, 2017	1LAJ05	3.43
6	6	"got your siX"	Craig Siebels	Melinda Hsu Taylor	November 6, 2017	1LAJ06	3.17
7	7	"eXtreme measures"	Stephen Surjik	Michael Horowitz	November 13, 2017	1LAJ07	3.00
8	8	"threat of eXtinction"	Steven DePaul	Carly Soteras	November 20, 2017	1LAJ08	2.90
9	9	"outfoX"	Liz Friedlander	Brad Marques	December 4, 2017	1LAJ09	2.81
10	10	"eXploited"	Craig Siebels	Jim Campolongo	December 11, 2017	1LAJ10	2.78
11	11	"3 X 1"	David Straiton	Melinda Hsu Taylor	January 1, 2018	1LAJ11	2.54
12	12	"eXtraction"	Scott Peters	Michael Horowitz	January 15, 2018	1LAJ12	3.42
13	13	"X-roads"	Stephen Surjik	Matt Nix & Jim Garvey	January 15, 2018	1LAJ13	3.42
Season 2 (2018–19)
Main article: The Gifted (season 2)
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
14	1	"eMergence"	Robert Duncan McNeill	Matt Nix	September 25, 2018	2LAJ01	2.58
15	2	"unMoored"	Steven DePaul	Rashad Raisani	October 2, 2018	2LAJ02	2.25
16	3	"coMplications"	Michael Goi	Michael Horowitz	October 9, 2018	2LAJ03	2.06
17	4	"outMatched"	Deran Sarafian	Marta Gené Camps	October 16, 2018	2LAJ04	1.93
18	5	"afterMath"	Scott Peters	Melissa R. Byer & Treena Hancock	October 30, 2018	2LAJ05	1.96
19	6	"iMprint"	Michael Goi	Dawn Kamoche & Ariella Blejer	November 6, 2018	2LAJ06	2.31
20	7	"no Mercy"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	Brad Marques	November 13, 2018	2LAJ07	1.89
21	8	"the dreaM"	Robert Duncan McNeill	Carly Soteras	November 27, 2018	2LAJ08	2.17
22	9	"gaMe changer"	Allison Liddi-Brown	Melinda Hsu Taylor	December 4, 2018	2LAJ09	2.02
23	10	"eneMy of My eneMy"	Gregory Prange	Michael Horowitz	January 1, 2019	2LAJ10	1.73
24	11	"meMento"	Maggie Kiley	Jim Garvey	January 8, 2019	2LAJ11	2.07
25	12	"hoMe"	Dawn Wilkinson	Marta Gené Camps	January 15, 2019	2LAJ12	1.59
26	13	"teMpted"	Jonathan Frakes	Melissa R. Byer & Treena Hancock	January 22, 2019	2LAJ13	1.82
27	14	"calaMity"	Stephen Surjik	Jason Lazarcheck	February 12, 2019	2LAJ14	1.60
28	15	"Monsters"	Scott Peters	Carly Soteras	February 19, 2019	2LAJ15	1.61
29	16	"oMens"	Robert Duncan McNeill	Matt Nix	February 26, 2019	2LAJ16	1.61
Production
See also: Production of season 1 and season 2
Development
Matt Nix, a fan of the X-Men since he was young, serves as showrunner and writer on the series.
Matt Nix, a fan of the X-Men since he was young, serves as showrunner and writer on the series.
In July 2016, after a series based on the Hellfire Club, an X-Men comic property, did not move forward at Fox, the network made a put pilot commitment for a different X-Men based series. The new pilot, written by X-Men fan Matt Nix, was for an action-adventure series based on ordinary parents discovering their children's mutant abilities. Fox Entertainment President David Madden said that "developing a Marvel property has been a top priority for the network—and we are so pleased with how Matt Nix has led us into this thrilling universe." The series is produced by 20th Century Fox Television and Marvel Television, with 20th handling the physical production of the series, and Nix executive producing alongside X-Men film series producers Bryan Singer, Lauren Shuler Donner, and Simon Kinberg, and Marvel Television executives Jeph Loeb and Jim Chory.

Nix pitched the series to executives as "Running on Empty with mutants". He created an elaborate presentation using Prezi which included photos of actors that he had altered to look like mutants, and graphics to explain how the series would fit in with the X-Men films as well as the larger X-Men universe of the comics. The presentation was met with applause, according to Loeb. The biggest criticisms that Nix received about his pitch was that he wanted to include too much story in the pilot, with some of his initial ideas becoming the stories of several other episodes. Early versions of Nix's pilot script were received "enthusiastically" by Fox executives, and Fox chairman and CEO Gary Newman was expecting a final draft in early January 2017, with a pilot pickup within a few weeks of that. Newman noted that "development across the board this year is a little slower than usual", but the network hoped to begin airing the potential series during the 2017–18 television season.

Nix said that as a fan of the X-Men comics, "you don't want to be slavishly doing the same thing over and over again that everyone else has done, but at the same time, you're conscious that this is important, and that I owe something to my 10 year old self right now." Fox officially ordered the series to pilot, as "untitled Marvel action-adventure series", at the end of the month. Donner referred to the series as Gifted in March, which was clarified to be a temporary title for the series. On May 9, Fox ordered the show to series as The Gifted. The pilot had been called "one of the hottest pilots of the [2017] broadcast development season" by commentators. The first season consists of 13 episodes. In August, Len Wiseman joined as a director and executive producer for the season. That October, Nix said that he had planned "a couple of seasons, in broad strokes", and stated that he wanted "to be doing this show for a long time." Noting a growing trend in shorter, self-contained television seasons, Nix said that he wanted the show to feel more like a traditional, long-running story and so have each season end in a satisfying way that does not feel "close-ended". On January 4, 2018, the series was renewed for a 16-episode second season. Described as being designed for "limited runs", Fox had not been in a hurry to give the series an early renewal before then. On April 17, 2019, it was announced that the series had been cancelled by Fox.

Writing
Nix described the series as coming "at the world of mutants from the side"; the films and comics "have generally started with the X-Men and encountered the world outside" from their perspective, but the series looks to "take place inside the world of people who are [not] already X-Men and [do not yet] know that world." He said the show would tell a more intimate story than the films have done as "it also explores issues surrounding mutants and what that experience is in a way that's hard to do in a two-hour movie because [a movie] needs to move very quickly and needs to get to big action." These issues reflect modern, real-world problems such as police attempting to kill mutants just because they look different, or the government only taking issue with mutants if they reveal themselves in public. The series' mutant underground is inspired by the Underground Railroad. Madden said that the series also took inspiration from Heroes, particularly for its themes of family and "that loner, outcast, people with superpowers thing", though he felt The Gifted would take "that thread [in] a very different direction than anything that happened on Heroes."

Nix was particularly influenced by the comic District X which is "just about a district in New York. It's where the mutants are ... the show is not a procedural [like the comic] at all, but it was seeing mutants in society, dealing with crime, drugs, their relationships to each other. We didn't take any characters from it. It was one of my favorites." Elaborating on the series not being a procedural, Nix said that it would not have a "save the mutant of the week" formula, and would instead follow the ongoing story of the mutant underground as they both try to save other mutants and fight to protect themselves, though each episode still has a beginning, middle, and end. When approaching mutant abilities in the series, particularly for the Strucker children who are just discovering theirs, Nix wanted to avoid clearly defining exactly what those abilities are immediately since "when your powers manifest, they don't come with a label. It's not like somebody pops up and says, 'Hey! You can do this!' When we think about powers on the show, what's the organic relationship between this person as a living, breathing human being, and their power? The idea is that what your power is and what you can do is influenced by who you are as a character." The series explores how it feels for the characters to use their abilities, and shows those abilities evolving along with the characters.

Casting
By early January 2017, "exploratory casting" for the series had begun, with the process expected to "ramp up" after the official pilot pickup. The next month, Blair Redford was cast as a mutant leader; Jamie Chung was cast as popular mutant Clarice Fong / Blink; Stephen Moyer was cast as Reed Strucker, a father and the series' male lead; and Sean Teale was cast as Marcos Diaz / Eclipse, a mutant created for the series. In March, Natalie Alyn Lind joined as Lauren Strucker, one of the series' central children. She was followed by Amy Acker as Caitlin Strucker, a mother and the series' female lead; Emma Dumont as mutant Lorna Dane / Polaris; Percy Hynes White as Andy Strucker, another of the central children; and Coby Bell as the morally ambiguous Jace Turner. Acker auditioned alongside the already-cast Moyer; the pair did not meet the actors playing their children, Lind and White, until the table read of the pilot episode. With the series order in May, Redford's character was revealed to be John Proudstar / Thunderbird.

Moyer, Acker, Teale, Lind, White, Bell, Chung, Redford, and Dumont all return to star in the second season. By January 2018, Skyler Samuels, who recurred as the Stepford Cuckoos in the first season, was being looked at to be promoted to series regular for the second, and this move was confirmed in June, along with the announcement that Grace Byers would also be joining the series as a series regular, in the role of Reeva.

Filming
Production on the series' pilot took place through March and April 2017, in Dallas, Texas. The rest of the first season was not filmed in the city after a decision on tax rebates in the state to be made by the Texas Legislature took too long for the series' schedule, with production moving to Atlanta, Georgia. The series' setting was subsequently changed from Dallas to Atlanta, including a retroactive change to the pilot.

Music
It was revealed in October 2017, ahead of the series premiere, that John Ottman and David Buckley were composing the score for the show; Ottman previously scored several of the X-Men films for Singer, and he collaborated with Buckley on the score for the film The Nice Guys.

Shared universe connections
Donner explained in January 2017 that, unlike the previous X-Men television series Legion, this series "is much more a part of just the world in terms of there are mutants, mutants are hated ... you feel like you're here in the X-Men world". Despite this, the "cinematic universe will not worry about ... these TV worlds at all. [The films] will just continue in the way that they have been continuing". Nix added that the X-Men films "don't all line up perfectly. So it's not like I'm slavishly fitting myself into a particular slot [but] if you like that world and the world of the movies, there are definite nods to it, it definitely exists in the same general universe".

Nix wanted to avoid repeating the connection between Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and the films of the Marvel Cinematic Universe by having a more general relationship, with existing characters from the films appearing in different ways in the series such as the new adaptation of Sentinels, mutant-hunting robots that have appeared in several of the films. Moyer stated in June 2017 that The Gifted would be set between Legion, in which mutants "are still largely not understood", and Logan, which sees the title character as one of the last mutants. He added, "we definitely slot into a timeline, but as of yet, we're not allied. I think they have given themselves a lot of leeway in order to be able to go places, but we've enough story within our universe to propel us forward without having to do that." The next month, Nix noted that the film X-Men: Days of Future Past established multiple, different timelines or "streams" in the X-Men universe, and that the series would take advantage of those to avoid the films and comics and instead do "our own thing". He explained that in the series' "stream", the X-Men have disappeared, which is "not just [because] they're too expensive for television" and something that the show would explore. He soon called this one of the central mysteries of the series, and revealed that it is due to a "bit of a 9/11 event, that caused enormous social upheaval and a lot of hatred towards mutants."

Broadcast
The Gifted aired on Fox in the United States, with CTV acquiring the broadcast rights for Canada. The series launched in more than 183 countries on Fox, following its U.S. debut, using a "day-and-date launch" format.

Reception
Ratings
Viewership and ratings per season of The Gifted
Season	Timeslot (ET)	Episodes	First aired	Last aired	TV season	Viewership
rank	Avg. viewers
(millions)	Avg. 18–49
rating
Date	Viewers
(millions)	Date	Viewers
(millions)
1	Monday 9:00 pm	13	October 2, 2017	4.90	January 15, 2018	3.42	2017–18	99	4.97	1.7
2	Tuesday 8:00 pm (1–9)
Tuesday 9:00 pm (10–16)	16	September 25, 2018	2.58	February 26, 2019	1.61	2018–19	132	3.32	1.1
The pilot's viewership was called a "solid start" to the series, and was noted to be higher than the season premiere of Lucifer in the same timeslot the year before, as well as the debut of the other new Marvel series of the season, Inhumans. By the series' second season renewal, it was considered to be a "solid ratings performer" for Fox, performing 18 percent better than the same timeslot the year before, and ranking the third best new drama series of the season.

Critical response
Critical response of The Gifted
Season	Rotten Tomatoes	Metacritic
1	76% (54 reviews)	63 (22 reviews)
2	83% (12 reviews)	—
For the first season, the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 76% approval rating, with an average rating of 6.8/10 based on 54 reviews. The website's consensus states, "The Gifted's first season lays a solid foundation for an involving superhero drama that powers past the origin-story doldrums by focusing on grounded, topical stories over mindless action and special effects." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 63 out of 100 based on 22 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

For the second season, Rotten Tomatoes reported an 83% approval rating, with an average rating of 6.8/10 based on 12 reviews.

Nazi allusions
Discussing the series, Drew Koch of Bustle magazine noted that it explored themes such as the persecution of minority groups, sacrificing freedom for safety, and criticizing "big government". He highlighted the antagonistic agency Sentinel Services, guessing the initials "SS" were a reference to the Schutzstaffel, a paramilitary division of Nazi Germany. USA Today's Brian Truitt also noted this reference, and the character Polaris directly calling out the government agents as Nazis, along with the mutant underground being patterned after the Underground Railroad.

Accolades
Year	Award	Category	Nominee	Result	Ref.
2018	Young Artist Awards	Best Performance in a TV Series – Lead Teen Actor	Percy Hynes White	Nominated	[citation needed]
Best Performance in a TV Series – Supporting Teen Actress	Natalie Alyn Lind	Nominated	[citation needed]
References
External links
The Gifted
X-Men in television
Live-action TV series based on Marvel Comics publications
Enjoying Wikiwand?
Wikiwand is a leading donor to the Wikimedia Foundation, we pledge to give a portion of our income to help Wikipedia thrive. By using Wikiwand, for FREE, you directly contribute to keep Wikipedia alive.

Donate now
30% goes to Wikimedia!
Not right now, thanks
Related Articles

List of NCIS episodes

Airings of the CBS detective show
NCIS and its characters were originally introduced in a two-part episode of the CBS television series JAG in April 2003. The show premiered on September 23, 2003, in the United States.
Read article

List of Supernatural episodes

Supernatural is an American supernatural drama television series, created by Eric Kripke, that follows brothers Sam and Dean Winchester as they travel throughout the United States hunting supernatural creatures. The series borrows heavily from folklore and urban legends, and explores mythology and Christian theology, and their main adversaries t...
Read article

List of NCIS: Los Angeles episodes

NCIS: Los Angeles is an American television series that premiered on CBS on September 22, 2009. The series is set in Los Angeles, California and follows the stories of the members of the Office of Special Projects, an undercover division of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS). The show and its characters were introduced in a two-part ep...
Read article

List of Chicago Fire episodes

Chicago Fire is an American television drama created by Michael Brandt and Derek Haas, who serve as executive producers alongside Joe Chappelle, Peter Jankowski, Danielle Gelber, Matt Olmstead and Dick Wolf. The series, which premiered on October 10, 2012, airs on NBC.
Read article

List of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. episodes

Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. is an American television series created for ABC by Joss Whedon, Jed Whedon, and Maurissa Tancharoen, based on the Marvel Comics organization S.H.I.E.L.D. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and acknowledges the continuity of the franchise's films and other television series. The series was produced by ABC Studio...
Read article
Load all related articles
Home
About us
FAQ
Press
Site map
Terms of service
Privacy policy
The Gifted (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"eXposed"	Bryan Singer	Matt Nix	October2,2017	1LAJ01	4.90
In Atlanta, Georgia, the mutant Clarice Fong escapes from prison with her teleporting abilities, and is rescued from police by members of a mutant underground that aims to protect persecuted mutants from the government. During this, Lorna Dane / Polaris is captured by the police, and is later asked by district attorney Reed Strucker to cooperate with him in exchange for a reduced sentence. Reed's children, Lauren and Andy, go to their school dance that night, where Andy is attacked by bullies. The stress causes Andy's mutant abilities to manifest, and he telekinetically causes major damage to the school. Lauren helps him escape, revealing that she is also a mutant. The pair and their parents are forced to go into hiding immediately by the arrival of the anti-mutant Sentinel Services (SS) agency. Reed convinces a member of the underground, Marcos Diaz / Eclipse, to help them in exchange for information on Polaris, but Turner and SS also arrive at their meeting. Clarice is able to teleport everyone to safety, except for Reed, who is captured.
2	2	"rX"	Len Wiseman	Matt Nix	October9,2017	1LAJ02	3.79
Clarice falls unconscious from the effort of teleporting the group back to the underground's hideout, losing control of her abilities. Portals begin to open to an unknown road, causing an accident that is brought to the attention of police. Caitlin, a nurse, offers to look for medication that may help Clarice, and races to a nearby hospital that still treats mutants with Eclipse, where they use an old injury to gain access to the medication. In prison, Polaris has a collar placed on her that gives her a shock whenever she tries to use her abilities. She faces discrimination and attacks from the other prisoners, and when she pushes through the pain of her collar to fight back, she is put in solitary confinement. Reed is interrogated by Turner, who tries various techniques to get Reed's cooperation, including interrogating Reed's mother Ellen. Caitlin and Eclipse return in time to help Clarice before her portals cause major damage and force the underground to evacuate. Reed agrees to give Turner the location of the underground in exchange for the freedom of his family.
3	3	"eXodus"	Scott Peters	Rashad Raisani	October16,2017	1LAJ03	3.46
Reed, being tracked by Turner, meets up with a mutant that he knows is working with Eclipse, and he agrees to smuggle Reed to the underground, but Reed decides to not put the mutants in harm and returns to Turner. Clarice begins working with John Proudstar / Thunderbird to control her abilities, but does not have someone that she truly cares about that she can focus her emotions on. Trying to help the underground, Caitlin secretly leaves and finds her brother Daniel, who she says has "connections", and is accompanied by her children. Daniel is unwilling to help, and when news gets out that they are there the Struckers are confronted by locals who want to keep their neighborhood safe. They escape the house with the help of Eclipse and Thunderbird. Clarice creates a portal for the group to return to the underground, but can only do this with strong feelings for Thunderbird, implanted by the mutant Sonya Simonson / Dreamer. Turner turns down an offer for help from scientist Roderick Campbell, who is interested in the Strucker children.
4	4	"eXit strategy"	Karen Gaviola	Meredith Lavender & Marcie Ulin	October23,2017	1LAJ04	3.36
Two years ago, the underground helped several mutants escape from an SS "Relocation Center", but Thunderbird's best friend Gus / Pulse—who can short out electrical circuits and other mutants' abilities—was believed to have been killed. Now, the underground plans to rescue Reed and Polaris from SS before they are delivered to a similar center, one that inmates do not return from. Eclipse gets information on the route they will be taken from the cartel he used to work for, now run by his former girlfriend Carmen Guerra. She forces him to use his abilities to torture someone for her in exchange for the information. The underground attacks the convoy transporting Reed and Polaris, with Andy and Lauren combining their abilities to stop the vehicles. They all lose their abilities when Pulse appears, alive and working for SS. Thunderbird knocks Pulse unconscious, Polaris breaks herself and Reed out, and they all escape. Meanwhile, Clarice continues to remember her feelings for Thunderbird, but he tells her that they have never been together.
5	5	"boXed in"	Jeremiah Chechik	Jim Campolongo	October30,2017	1LAJ05	3.43
Thunderbird takes the Struckers back to the underground, where a mutant named Fade recognizes Reed as having been working with Turner; many of the underground's members are uncomfortable with Reed joining them. In order to prove his loyalty, Reed suggests using himself as bait to lure away the SS agents. Thunderbird tasks Fade with helping Reed, and they are successful. Meanwhile, Caitlin, Lauren, and Andy are able to save the life of an injured mutant, Trader. Having earned the underground's trust, the Struckers decide to stay and fight with them. Eclipse and Polaris attack an SS blockade and capture Turner. Dreamer and Clarice join them, as they are surrounded by SS. Dreamer begins searching Turner's memories for information, learning of the program that converted Pulse to an SS agent. She is unable to finish before they have to flee, leaving Turner believing that his daughter Grace is still alive despite her death during a mutant protest four years earlier. Clarice later confronts Dreamer about altering her memories.
6	6	"got your siX"	Craig Siebels	Melinda Hsu Taylor	November6,2017	1LAJ06	3.17
Clarice confronts Thunderbird about him not telling her what Dreamer did to her memories, and decides to leave the underground. The group plans to attack a Federal facility where Pulse was taken without Clarice's help; Reed, Eclipse, and Andy go to break in and steal information on the mutants who are now working for SS. Thunderbird worries that these mutants could be the deciding factor in a war that the X-Men believed was coming (they put Thunderbird in charge of the underground before they disappeared). Reed becomes concerned with Andy's abilities and how he enjoys using them to destroy things, and attempts to gain Andy's trust as his father again. After stealing the information, the trio are followed by police into an SS ambush. Polaris takes Lauren and another young mutant, visual illusionist Wes, to help them. Meanwhile, Turner is given a mandatory leave for his reborn grief, but ignores this and instead begins a new partnership with Campbell, giving him the information about Andy and Lauren in exchange for his help.
7	7	"eXtreme measures"	Stephen Surjik	Michael Horowitz	November13,2017	1LAJ07	3.00
Guerra forces Eclipse to help her on another job, this time destroying a rival's shipment of drugs; Polaris and Dreamer follow Eclipse after the former discovered he was lying about his whereabouts, and see him work with Guerra. Thunderbird tracks down Clarice, and offers to help her find the road that her portals were opening to when she was sick. They realize that the road leads to the home for mutants that she lived in as a child, but it is now derelict after SS agents stormed the building and killed its inhabitants. She agrees to rejoin the fight. From the stolen information, the underground learns that Wes has a criminal background, leading to him leaving for another underground group, and that Reed's father may have been involved with Campbell's program to turn mutants when he worked for Trask Industries. Now, Campbell and Turner prepare to send these mutants, called Hounds, undercover within the underground. When a DOJ official attempts to stop the pair from using their illegal actions, one of the Hounds makes her have a stroke.
8	8	"threat of eXtinction"	Steven DePaul	Carly Soteras	November20,2017	1LAJ08	2.90
The underground rescue a group of refugees, but a telepath among them, Esme, reveals another of the mutants to be a Hound. The latter is taken hostage, and Esme is able to help read her mind; they learn that she was taken hostage by Trask Industries, and their work on her included addicting her to the drug Kick. Reed and Thunderbird visit Reed's estranged father Otto, who used to work for Trask. Otto reveals that his father and aunt, Andreas and Andrea von Strucker, were the mutant terrorists Fenris. They had extremely powerful abilities, which they passed on to Otto; his work at Trask focused on suppressing the mutant X-gene, and he prevented Reed from developing these abilities. Lauren and Andy now have the same abilities as the von Struckers, and can become as powerful as them if their powers are combined. Campbell and SS agents arrive to interrogate Otto, and he attacks them with his abilities to protect Reed and Thunderbird. Otto is able to overcome Pulse's mutant suppressing, releasing a blast that injures Campbell and kills Pulse.
9	9	"outfoX"	Liz Friedlander	Brad Marques	December4,2017	1LAJ09	2.81
Reed tells his family about his history as a mutant, and about the von Struckers and their terrorist activities. He and Caitlin test Andy and Lauren to see if they could become as powerful as the twins; holding hands, the pair feel the power to destroy the entire building, and are only stopped by Reed separating them. Desperate to rescue her family from Trask, Esme uses her abilities to manipulate the others into agreeing with a plan of attack: Clarice, Dreamer, and the Struckers will take out a power plant supporting the Trask facility, which can then be attacked by her, Polaris, Eclipse, and Thunderbird. Turner predicts this, and organizes an unofficial SS task force to storm the power plant before it can be disabled. Clarice and Dreamer are captured trying to allow Andy and Lauren to escape, as Reed and Caitlin watch in horror from a van outside. Trapped in the basement, Andy and Lauren join hands, but Andy stops them from using their combined abilities before they kill all the building's inhabitants. They surrender themselves to Turner.
10	10	"eXploited"	Craig Siebels	Jim Campolongo	December11,2017	1LAJ10	2.78
Polaris wants to immediately attack Sentinel Services, but Reed and Caitlin argue for a diplomatic solution that will not endanger their children, potentially reaching out to some of Reed's old contacts about Trask and the Hound program. Esme talks to Reed and Caitlin in secret, and suggests that they go to Turner and hope that his better nature prevails. When Esme tells the other mutants what the couple intend to do, they prepare to attack. At Trask Industries, a heavily scarred Campbell forces Andy and Lauren to demonstrate their combined powers by killing Dreamer, and they are able to dent an apparently "indestructible" adamantium wall. After he is confronted by the Struckers, Turner plans to arrest them, but is convinced by his wife to do the right thing. Turner goes to Trask to transfer the mutants back to Sentinel Services. The mutants use this opportunity to attack, but they are betrayed by Esme. She makes the guards kill each other and themselves, and releases her identical sisters, Phoebe and Sophie Frost, who have the same abilities as her.
11	11	"3 X 1"	David Straiton	Melinda Hsu Taylor	January1,2018	1LAJ11	2.54
The Frost sisters approach the underground for help in stopping the Hound program, though they are doing so to support their own agenda of rebuilding the Hellfire Club. The underground members refuse, while Reed and Caitlin decide to take their family to Mexico. They stop at another refugee base on the way, where they reunite with Wes. One of the sisters visits Andy, asking him to reconsider leaving. Another visits Polaris, and uses knowledge of her mysterious birth father—who once led the Hellfire Club—and her unborn baby to try manipulate her into assisting them. Turner and Campbell launch an attack on the Struckers' location, using Hounds who can combine their abilities with technology developed from Lauren and Andy to start destroying the building and arrest mutants. Polaris, Clarice, Eclipse, and Thunderbird arrive to rescue them, but only the intervention of the sisters allows them to successfully escape. The underground formally partners with the Hellfire Club, unaware that the sisters had given SS the location of the base.
12	12	"eXtraction"	Scott Peters	Michael Horowitz	January15,2018	1LAJ12	3.42
Polaris, Eclipse, Thunderbird, and Clarice join the Frost sisters at a safe house where Esme explains that when the X-Men established the underground before their disappearance, their rival group the Brotherhood established the new Hellfire Club before their own disappearance. Campbell meets with the anti-mutant Senator Montez at the Humanity Today conference, where he talks about his advancements in the fight to eradicate the X-gene; Montez agrees to give political support to expanding the Hound program for use across the country. Meanwhile, SS agents search for more information on Otto's research. Learning that they are going after Ellen, the Struckers go to her office and persuade her to go into hiding. Andy and Lauren disagree on how much force to use when holding off arriving SS agents. Ellen gives them the name of Otto's research partner, Madeline Risman, before departing. The underground mutants infiltrate the conference with the Frost sisters to abduct Campbell, but flee when he uses children as human shields and SS forces arrive.
13	13	"X-roads"	Stephen Surjik	Matt Nix & Jim Garvey	January15,2018	1LAJ13	3.42
Four years earlier, Polaris had been approached at a mental hospital by an attorney named Evangeline, who recruited her for the underground on the behalf of the X-Men. Now, Campbell and Montez set to fly to Washington. The Frost sisters convince Polaris to embrace her heritage and stop them. Turner tracks the Struckers with a new pair of Hounds to the underground's headquarters, and lays siege to it. Reed leads a defense of the building with the few remaining fighters, while Caitlin oversees an evacuation through an escape tunnel. When the Hounds break into the building, Andy and Lauren remain behind to let the last of the underground escape. They combine their abilities, disintegrating the entire building and the Hounds inside it. Polaris destroys the plane that Campbell and Montez are in. Turner quits when his superiors attempt to set him up as a scapegoat. The underground regroups in Nashville, Tennessee, where Polaris and the Frosts arrive seeking recruits for the Hellfire Club. Several choose to join them, including Andy.
Close ▲
The Gifted (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
14	1	"eMergence"	Robert Duncan McNeill	Matt Nix	September25,2018	2LAJ01	2.58
After recruiting the mutants Lorna Dane / Polaris and Andy Strucker for the "Inner Circle" of the Hellfire Club, Reeva Payge stages a coup and takes control of the organization. Six months later in Washington D.C., the new Inner Circle buys a large munitions factory to clear out so Polaris has a place to safely give birth. The Mutant Underground works to save endangered mutants from the government agency Sentinel Services. Marcos Diaz / Eclipse, the father of Polaris's child, and Andy's mother Caitlin try to gain information on the Inner Circle from the mutant hacker Wire; but only learn of their vast resources and power. Caitlin's husband Reed and daughter Lauren are ready to stop looking for Andy, and Reed is also concerned by his latent mutant abilities manifesting. When Polaris goes into labor, her powers cause electrical disturbances across the city and the Underground unsuccessfully tries to follow them back to her. The Frosts give Polaris a vision of the future she wants for her child, allowing her to give birth to baby Dawn.
15	2	"unMoored"	Steven DePaul	Rashad Raisani	October2,2018	2LAJ02	2.25
Three years ago, Evangeline Whedon recruits John Proudstar / Thunderbird to lead the Atlanta station for the Mutant Underground. In the present, she refuses to take on the Inner Circle but gives Thunderbird the location of a mutant, Erg, who may know more. Caitlin and Reed continue to argue about Andy while Lauren reveals to her father she has her own trauma from killing fifteen people back in Atlanta. Meanwhile, Jace Turner tries to be a lawyer but is still obsessed with mutants, before telling his wife that he can move on. Andy and Lauren have shared dreams which interfere with his training. As Reeva and the Frosts kill any humans involved with Dawn's birth, Reeva considers killing Andy for trying to contact his family, but instead motivates him to complete his training. Polaris discovers baby Dawn is very sick.
16	3	"coMplications"	Michael Goi	Michael Horowitz	October9,2018	2LAJ03	2.06
Six years ago, Marcos' dying father rejects his son because he was a mutant. In the present, he is kidnapped by the Frosts to cure baby Dawn's jaundice. As Lauren and Reed return from a supply run, Reed's powers manifest, melting the steering wheel and causing them to crash. Jace Turner heads to D.C., despite what he told his wife and checks out the scene, glimpsing the Struckers and realizing they are not dead like the authorities believe. The police refuse to listen because of his dismissal from SS. Marcos is able to cure his daughter. He briefly overcomes the Frosts' telepathy to try and fight for his family, but he is disarmed by Reeva and she removes him from Inner Circle headquarters. Johnny and Clarice search for Erg's group, the Morlocks, in the sewers. Erg tells Clarice that mutants live down there away from everyone else. Erg offers information if Clarice agrees to be his spy on the surface. Reed confesses his powers to Caitlin, which also melted their information on the Inner Circle. Clarice finds that the Frosts were looking into the Health Department. Marcos returns swearing revenge, as Reeva prepares for the next phase of her plans.
17	4	"outMatched"	Deran Sarafian	Marta Gené Camps	October16,2018	2LAJ04	1.93
16 years ago, Caitlin refuses to terminate her pregnancy of Andy even though it represents a high risk for both of them. In the present, the Underground, seeking a hacker's help again, discover that the Frosts have killed Wire. The Underground kidnaps his brother Graph, who refuses to help them until Caitlin exploits his addiction to Kick. Graph discovers the Inner Circle is attacking an old mental hospital where Lorna was held years ago. Lauren, Marcos, Johnny and Clarice go to stop them. When Sage blocks Graph's hacking, Caitlin gives him more Kick, which induces a near-fatal overdose. Johnny and Clarice confront Lorna in the facility and she releases the other patients to cover her escape. As the Inner Circle tries to escape with a patient, Marcos and Lauren block them. Andy rejects his sister and blasts them away, knocking Lauren out. His parents are devastated and Reed's powers violently manifest again. On television, the hospital staff confess to inhumane treatment of their patients and the attack is seen as a rallying point for mutant rights. Jace's wife leaves him because he refuses to move on and he is approached by the Purifiers, who he ultimately joins when he sees news of the hospital incident.
18	5	"afterMath"	Scott Peters	Melissa R. Byer & Treena Hancock	October30,2018	2LAJ05	1.96
12 years ago, rookie police officer Jace does not like his partner harassing a mutant but goes along with it. In the present, he suggests the Purifiers win over the public by rounding up the fugitive mutants that escaped from the mental hospital. At the clinic, Caitlin and Johnny treat the hospital escapees and Lauren, who is distraught about Andy. When the Purifiers attack, they are forced to let one mutant die to keep themselves hidden before the Purifiers flee from approaching police. Stealing some files, Jace comes up with another plan. Meanwhile, the Inner Circle prepares their new mutant Rebecca/Twist for her role in their plans but she is unresponsive. Andy takes her out for her first taste of freedom in years as she was the clinic's most dangerous patient. She shows Andy her power of turning things inside out and they destroy a police car together, kissing when they return. Clarice takes the other patients to hide with the Morlocks. Erg takes them on the condition they brand a "M" mark into their cheeks, disgusting Marcos. Erg also encourages "Blink" to not hide who she is, like she does with the Mutant Underground.
19	6	"iMprint"	Michael Goi	Dawn Kamoche & Ariella Blejer	November6,2018	2LAJ06	2.31
Jace realizes the Mutant Underground has a base in Baltimore. He sends the Purifiers to bomb a church to flush people out. Reed, Clarice, Marcos and Johnny go to help out, reuniting with several mutants from Atlanta, including Shatter and Pedro. The Purifiers attack, handing over Pedro to SS. Jace kills Shatter in the attack. Reed melts a wall for the others to escape but then cannot turn off his power. Lauren and Caitlin track a former doctor of the mental hospital, learning Rebecca used her powers to kill her family by turning their skulls inside out. Lorna grows frustrated with Reeva hiding the plan so Esme shows her the bank they plan to attack, which has mutant detecting technology. Lorna seems to like Esme but attacks her when she realizes Esme was in baby Dawn's mind. Esme apologizes, revealing she and her sisters were quintuplet clones created as weapons. They killed their handlers at age 13, but the other two sisters, Celeste and Mindee were killed—which the surviving triplets felt. Esme swears to protect Lorna and Dawn, so Lorna stays with the Inner Circle.
20	7	"no Mercy"	Nina Lopez-Corrado	Brad Marques	November13,2018	2LAJ07	1.89
Eight years ago, Reeva wants her local mutant community to work with humans but her mutant friend is killed right in front of her by human racists. In the present, she dates a bank employee she genuinely likes even though she's using him as part of the plan. The Inner Circle attacks the bank, promising nobody will be hurt if they cooperate. While draining their funds, the Frosts force the employees to confess to persecuting mutants and take something from the vault. On their way out Rebecca, wanting to punish humans, happily kills all the employees; horrifying even Reeva. The Mutant Underground moves Reed to the now abandoned clinic, where Caitlin convinces him to go see his father's old assistant Madeline. Marcos and Johnny confront Clarice for working for Erg, which she admits, reasoning that the Morlocks have a plan to help mutants while the Underground is a mess with no vision. Jace meets with television reporter Benedict Ryan, who wants Jace to expose the lies of Sentinel Services. He refuses at first, but is convinced after he hears about the bank incident.
21	8	"the dreaM"	Robert Duncan McNeill	Carly Soteras	November27,2018	2LAJ08	2.17
Flashbacks show Lorna was a rebellious teen living with her aunt and could never talk about her birth father, who only left her a medallion. Rebecca leaves the Inner Circle while escaping the bank. With anti-mutant attacks on the rise, Lorna fears for Dawn's safety. Esme suggests a mutant school in Switzerland. Lorna lets a distraught Marcos say goodbye to Dawn; but actually takes her to her aunt, realizing her own father did the same to keep her safe. Lorna turns the medallion into a helmet for herself. When Johnny and Clarice try to track the Inner Circle, Rebecca tells them they were looking into the tech company, Regimen. Rebecca is later captured by Fade. The Struckers meet Madeline, who is able to temporarily stabilize Reed's powers, but wants to study Lauren to make a cure; which she's done for any mutant who has come to her. Her assistant Noah, who got control of his vibration powers under her, convinces Lauren she might have a normal life. However, she is horrified to learn that Madeline wants to cure all mutants and her brother, Matthew, founded the Purifiers.
22	9	"gaMe changer"	Allison Liddi-Brown	Melinda Hsu Taylor	December4,2018	2LAJ09	2.02
One year ago, Rebecca's parents turn her in to Sentinel Services. In the present, Andy disagrees with Reeva imprisoning Rebecca as the humans did. He decides to free Rebecca and run, but she wants to kill the entire Inner Circle instead. Andy accidentally kills her in the process of thwarting her attack. Johnny, Marcos, and Clarice kidnap an analyst from Regimen. Clarice leaves John after his obsession with stopping the Inner Circle causes a manhunt for all mutants in the area. The analyst reveals Regimen controls every mutant prison collar in the country. Fade arrives and kills the analyst on Reeva's orders, but is captured by Johnny and Marcos. The Purifiers find them, so Johnny stays behind to allow Marcos and Fade to escape, which leads to Jace capturing him. Lauren convinces her parents to destroy Madeline's research, while Madeline herself reveals Lauren's DNA has two strains of the X-gene. She and Noah stop the Struckers, but after the former says mutants, including the latter and Lauren, should not have been born, Noah turns on her and destroys her research so the Struckers can escape. Lorna and Andy destroy the Regimen servers, freeing every incarcerated mutant in the country.
23	10	"eneMy of My eneMy"	Gregory Prange	Michael Horowitz	January1,2019	2LAJ10	1.73
Three years ago, Marcos, Lorna, and Johnny all promise to be there for each other when it matters most. In the present, as Jace interrogates Johnny at a Purifier compound, the Mutant Underground reluctantly asks Lorna for the Inner Circle's help in rescuing him. Lorna and Andy find the compound and join the Underground to assist. Andy's parents are happy to see him and tell him about Reed's powers, though Lauren does not trust him. Jace believes the Underground has been behind the mutant uprising, but pauses to consider Johnny's claim that Andy and Lorna left for the unsubstantiated Inner Circle—until he sees Lorna and Marcos attack the compound together. Believing Johnny lied, he becomes enraged and shoots him with a shotgun multiple times. Jace flees before Clarice, Andy, and Lauren arrive to rescue Johnny. On the way out of the compound, Andy delights in torturing a Purifier who tried to shoot Lauren, disgusting his family when he says they deserve to be wiped out. Caitlin determines they must destroy the Inner Circle to get him back. Lorna kisses Marcos goodbye, but claims it does not change anything between them. Clarice reaffirms her love for the wounded Johnny. The Strucker siblings train, separately, to increase their powers.
24	11	"meMento"	Maggie Kiley	Jim Garvey	January8,2019	2LAJ11	2.07
In 1985, after his sister's death, Andreas has the music box altered and leaves something behind after killing a shop owner with a powered sword. In the present, Reeva gathers new recruits to the Inner Circle, but their sadistic past makes Lorna realize she must be stopped. Lauren studies the Von Struckers, dreaming of Andrea's death and mirroring her power to turn her barriers into cutting disks. Caitlin approves of this as a means to take down the Inner Circle, though Reed is upset when Lauren risks exposure to distract cops that appear at their home. Lauren later intimidates the landlord with her powers after finding hair samples from both Original Fenris in the music box. Benedict sends the Purifiers to invade a youth shelter said to house mutants. While Jace seems remorseful, he covers up his partner killing a mutant teen in cold blood. He is seen as a hero in the media, but cannot face his ex-wife. Marcos and Clarice seek Erg for a tip. Lorna and Marcos reunite as a couple. Evangeline calls Johnny to gather the Mutant Underground. Investigating the tip, Lorna and Marcos see Reeva meet with Benedict.
25	12	"hoMe"	Dawn Wilkinson	Marta Gené Camps	January15,2019	2LAJ12	1.59
14 years ago, Clarice and her foster sister Lilly escape their abusive foster father, but Lilly goes back to save the other foster children and is killed. In the present, Evangeline arrives and reveals Lorna is their spy. She coerces Erg to come to the Underground meeting; recalling how they founded and led the Mutant Underground together until a human ally betrayed them, causing him to leave to form the Morlocks. The Inner Circle's recruits are sent on a mission to kill Evangeline and the other Underground leaders. Despite Lorna's warning, Johnny and company are too late to save them. With Johnny determined to keep fighting, Clarice tearfully leaves to join the Morlocks. Caitlin and Lauren reach out to Caitlin's brother, Danny, for government intelligence on the Purifiers and Reeva. He can only tell them the government is compromised before Lauren has to fight off SS agents so she and Caitlin can escape. The Frosts discover the mental link between Andy and Lauren, and convinces him to attempt to persuade Lauren to join their side by telling him it will save his family; hiding their intent to increase the Inner Circle's power.
26	13	"teMpted"	Jonathan Frakes	Melissa R. Byer & Treena Hancock	January22,2019	2LAJ13	1.82
Six years ago, Erg falls in love with a human woman, but she is caught by SS and betrays Evangeline and the Underground. Erg rejects her and vows never to trust a human again. In the present, a Morlock named Glow is shot on a supply run. Given the similarity of her powers to Marcos', Clarice brings him and Caitlin to the sewers to save Glow's life. Erg does not trust Caitlin, but accompanies her and Clarice out for medical supplies. Purifiers attack, but the three fight back and escape. They save Glow and Erg honors Caitlin. The Frosts use Andy to reach out to Lauren in her dreams, and she decides to give in, but Johnny and Reed track her down. Reed confesses he feels the allure of their family's power as well. Lauren agrees to return, and takes the serum to suppress her powers, cutting off her connection to Andy. Meanwhile, Lorna discovers that the Inner Circle's new recruits are targeting government buildings. Lorna sends Marcos after the recruit Max, ending with Marcos being shot before Max's car explodes.
27	14	"calaMity"	Stephen Surjik	Jason Lazarcheck	February12,2019	2LAJ14	1.60
Four years ago, Benedict struggles as a failing radio host, but Reeva promises to make him famous. In the present, she has him send Jace's Purifiers to attack the Morlocks in the sewers. Though the Morlocks kill a few Purifiers, Jace leads his team through, killing the Morlocks' fighters. Clarice asks for help evacuating the sewers. Lauren and Reed decide not to take the serum and face their powers. As the police close in on the evacuated Morlocks, Caitlin shoots her way through a police blockade to get away. Clarice has to stay behind in the sewers to get everyone out. While saving a mutant girl with Erg, Clarice is shot by Jace and her portal closes in front of John. Jace is shocked to find that they attacked children. When the Inner Circle discovers that Max is dead, Reeva locks down their headquarters to find the spy. Because Lorna was using Sage's password to spy on Max, Sage is blamed for his death. With Sage's brain immune to their telepathy, the Frosts are unable to determine her guilt or innocence, and Reeva – convinced Sage is the spy – kills her, devastating Lorna.
28	15	"Monsters"	Scott Peters	Carly Soteras	February19,2019	2LAJ15	1.61
Two months ago, Clarice does not believe she deserves to be happy because of her past; John says everyone deserves redemption, even Lorna and Andy. In the present, John saw her fall into a portal, unsure if she survived. While Jace processes what he has done, his partner Ted finds Reed. Reed's powers activate, killing Ted. Caitlin and Lauren take cover in an abandoned building as the latter's powers return. Reed and Marcos rescue them. Reeva prepares her plan; she and Andy will attack SS headquarters through the sewers, Lorna will take down communications, the Frosts will telepathically impose the idea of a mutant homeland as the solution, and the rest will destroy government buildings. Lorna tells Andy of Reeva and Benedict's arranging the attack on the Morlocks to clear out the sewers. Andy does not believe he can return to the Underground; convinced he is a monster. Reed, empathizing with Andy, confesses to killing Ted out of anger. Jace confronts Benedict, who tells him another mutant attack is coming. Andy and Lorna reunite with the Mutant Underground while John hears Clarice's voice. Upon learning Andy and Lorna defected, Reeva declares they will be killed.
29	16	"oMens"	Robert Duncan McNeill	Matt Nix	February26,2019	2LAJ16	1.61
Five years ago, after the 7/15 incident, Reed becomes a mutant crimes prosecutor to protect his family. In the present, Reeva has Benedict send Jace's Purifiers to attack the Mutant Underground. The Frosts sneak in with Fade and force Andy and Lauren to leave with them. John distracts the Purifiers so the others can go after them. Erg appears and helps Johnny, giving him the chance to have Jace at his mercy. The Frosts force Andy and Lauren to destroy SS headquarters. Lorna is able to speak to Esme of their friendship, weakening the Frosts' grip and allowing Marcos to knock out Sophie and Phoebe to save Andy and Lauren. As the adults battle the Inner Circle's recruits, Caitlin kills Fade. Reed confronts Reeva, wherein she turns her ability on him to destabilize his already volatile powers—-as he intended. He loses control and explodes, killing them both. Weeks later, Esme joins the Underground, forcing a confession out of Benedict. Jace is left in the hospital. Lorna and Marcos reunite with Dawn. The Struckers mourn Reed. Erg meets with the Underground, telling them mutants need new leadership. Clarice appears out of a portal, stating she wants to show them something.
Close ▲
