https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legion_(TV_series)

Legion (TV series)
American television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Legion (Marvel Comics)
X-Men (film series)
Marvel Television
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Legion (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Legion is an American superhero television series created by Noah Hawley for FX, based on the Marvel Comics character David Haller / Legion. Set in an alternate timeline of the X-Men film series, it was produced by FX Productions in association with Marvel Television, and ran for three seasons from 2017 to 2019, with Hawley serving as showrunner.

Quick facts: Legion, Genre, Created by, Based on, Starring... ▼
Legion
Legion TV series logo
Genre
Science fiction
Psychological thriller
Psychological horror
Superhero
Created by	Noah Hawley
Based on
Starring
Narrated by	Jon Hamm (season 2)
Composer	Jeff Russo
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	3
No. of episodes	27
Production
Executive producers
Producers
Brian Leslie Parker
Regis Kimble
Production locations
British Columbia, Canada
Los Angeles, California
Cinematography
Dana Gonzales
Craig Wrobleski
Running time	44–68 minutes
Production companies
26 Keys Productions
The Donners' Company
Bad Hat Harry Productions (season 1)
Kinberg Genre
Marvel Television
FXP
Release
Original network	FX
Original release	February 8, 2017–
August 12, 2019
Close ▲
Dan Stevens starred as David Haller, a "mutant" diagnosed with schizophrenia at a young age. Rachel Keller, Aubrey Plaza, Bill Irwin, Jeremie Harris, Amber Midthunder, and Jean Smart also starred, along with Katie Aselton during the first season; Navid Negahban, Jemaine Clement, and Hamish Linklater joined the cast for the second season; Lauren Tsai joined for the third season.

The series follows Haller as he tries to control his mutant powers and the sinister forces trying to control them while evading a government agency. FX and Marvel Television announced a new collaboration to create a television series based on the Marvel Comics character Legion in October 2015, with Hawley signed on to write and direct the pilot. He wanted to show Haller as an "unreliable narrator", including mixing 1960s design with modern-day elements, and filming the series through the title character's distorted view of reality.

The eight-episode first season of Legion aired from February to March 2017. An eleven-episode second season aired from April to June 2018. The eight-episode third and final season premiered on June 24, 2019. A total of 27 episodes aired over three seasons. All three seasons received critical acclaim for their distinct narrative structure and visual style, as a unique approach to the superhero genre.

Premise
David Haller was diagnosed with schizophrenia at a young age and has been a patient in various psychiatric hospitals since the diagnosis. He was committed to the latest facility by his adoptive sister, Amy Haller. After Haller has an encounter with fellow patient Syd Barrett, he is confronted with the possibility that there may be more to him than mental illness where an incident led to the death of his friend Lenore "Lenny" Busker. Hunted by the government agency Division 3 in the first season, Haller is saved by Syd and a group of mutants at a facility called Summerland, who explain that he is also a psychic mutant. Haller eventually discovers that his mind is infected by a parasitic mutant, another psychic named Amahl Farouk / Shadow King, and is able to force the villain from his mind.

In the second season, Haller returns after a year spent trapped in a mysterious orb. In his absence, his Summerland allies have joined forces with Division 3 to stop Farouk's plan to find his real body and amass world-ending power. Farouk uses Oliver Bird and a device stolen from Division 3 to enable Lenny to be reborn in Amy's body.

In the third season, due to Shadow King's evidence, David flees from Division 3 with Lenny where they set up a place for his cult as David gets a time-traveling mutant named Switch on his side. He plans to improve Switch's powers in order to protect the world. David kidnaps Cary Loudermilk to help him amplify Switch's powers. David then uses Switch to go back to when he was a child and witnesses various parts of his parents' past including his father Charles Xavier going to war and meeting his mother Gabrielle Haller at a mental facility, his father locating and meeting Farouk, and how Farouk got into him in the first place, though this does bring both sides into conflict with the Time Eaters.

Cast and characters
Main article: List of Legion characters
Dan Stevens as David Haller / Legion:
The mutant son of Charles Xavier, David was diagnosed with schizophrenia at a young age and meets the "girl of his dreams" in a psychiatric hospital. The character possesses various psychic abilities, including telepathy, telekinesis and teleportation. Stevens joined the series because of showrunner Noah Hawley's involvement, and did extensive research on mental health to prepare for the role, talking to both mentally ill persons and doctors. Hawley and the cast kept secrets from Stevens about the character and plot so that he could identify with David's confusion about himself and reality.
Rachel Keller as Sydney "Syd" Barrett:
A young mutant woman who becomes David's girlfriend. Syd's mind trades places with that of anyone she touches, with hers entering their body, and vice versa. Because of her abilities, the character is portrayed as "withdrawn", the opposite of Keller's breakout performance in the second season of Hawley's Fargo. She is named after Roger "Syd" Barrett of the rock band Pink Floyd, whose music was an important influence on showrunner Noah Hawley.
Aubrey Plaza as Lenore "Lenny" Busker and Amahl Farouk / Shadow King (season 1; special guest season 2):
David's friend, an "impossible optimist" despite a history of drug and alcohol abuse. The character dies in the first episode, but returns as the main form and persona, out of several, adopted by the powerful mutant Amahl Farouk within David's mind. Farouk later gives Busker a new body to use, created by infusing Amy Haller's body with Busker's DNA. Busker was originally written for a middle-aged man, until Hawley met Plaza and rethought the character. However, Plaza insisted that the character's dialogue not be changed for her, instead choosing to play the character as both male and female, preceding their reveal as the Shadow King. This led to Busker "making crass remarks about women and muttering vintage phrases".
Bill Irwin as Cary Loudermilk:
A mutant scientist, one of the founders of Summerland and one of Bird's specialists. The character is introduced in the second episode, but Hawley sought to cast Irwin, for his "playful approach to characters", during filming on the pilot, before the character's role had been written. Hawley "had to pitch him the weird, crazy character dynamic and that the show is about memory and identity", and Irwin agreed to join the project.
Jeremie Harris as Ptonomy Wallace:
A former child prodigy and a mutant, one of Bird's specialists. A "memory artist", Ptonomy "remembers everything, and has the ability to take people back into their own memories".
Amber Midthunder as Kerry Loudermilk:
A mutant who lives inside Cary's body; their mutant power allows them to coexist in one body or to become separate physical persons. Kerry only ages when she is outside Cary, leaving her physically much younger than he is.
Katie Aselton as Amy Haller (season 1; recurring season 2):
David's adoptive older sister, who tries to remain positive despite his history of mental illness. Hawley said that she defined herself as normal "against her brother. She finds herself being looked at as if she might be crazy, as well."
Jean Smart as Melanie Bird (seasons 1–2; special guest season 3):
A demanding psychiatric therapist. Smart joined the series immediately when asked by Hawley, despite knowing nothing about the show and its source material, due to her previous Emmy-nominated work with him on the second season of Fargo.
Navid Negahban as Amahl Farouk / Shadow King (seasons 2–3): A malevolent presence in David's mind who takes on several different forms. The character was portrayed in a main capacity in the first season by Plaza, while Quinton Boisclair, Devyn Dalton, Kirby Morrow and Jemaine Clement have played his alternate forms.
Jemaine Clement as Oliver Bird (season 2; recurring season 1; special guest season 3): Melanie's mutant husband. He has spent the last 20 years on the astral plane.
Hamish Linklater as Clark Debussy (seasons 2–3; recurring season 1): An "Interrogator" for Division 3.
Lauren Tsai as Jia-Yi / Switch (season 3): A young mutant with time-traveling abilities.
Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1	8	February8,2017	March29,2017
2	11	April3,2018	June12,2018
3	8	June24,2019	August12,2019
Season 1 (2017)
Main article: Legion (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"Chapter 1"	Noah Hawley	Noah Hawley	February8,2017	XLN01001	1.622
2	2	"Chapter 2"	Michael Uppendahl	Noah Hawley	February15,2017	XLN01002	1.133
3	3	"Chapter 3"	Michael Uppendahl	Peter Calloway	February22,2017	XLN01003	1.043
4	4	"Chapter 4"	Larysa Kondracki	Nathaniel Halpern	March1,2017	XLN01004	0.750
5	5	"Chapter 5"	Tim Mielants	Peter Calloway	March8,2017	XLN01005	0.795
6	6	"Chapter 6"	Hiro Murai	Nathaniel Halpern	March15,2017	XLN01006	0.732
7	7	"Chapter 7"	Dennie Gordon	Jennifer Yale	March22,2017	XLN01007	0.716
8	8	"Chapter 8"	Michael Uppendahl	Noah Hawley	March29,2017	XLN01008	0.812
Close ▲
Season 2 (2018)
Main article: Legion (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
9	1	"Chapter 9"	Tim Mielants	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April3,2018	XLN02001	0.669
10	2	"Chapter 10"	Ana Lily Amirpour	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April10,2018	XLN02002	0.439
11	3	"Chapter 11"	Sarah Adina Smith	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April17,2018	XLN02003	0.380
12	4	"Chapter 12"	Ellen Kuras	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April24,2018	XLN02004	0.434
13	5	"Chapter 13"	Tim Mielants	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	May1,2018	XLN02005	0.456
14	6	"Chapter 14"	John Cameron	Noah Hawley	May8,2018	XLN02007	0.353
15	7	"Chapter 15"	Charlie McDowell	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	May15,2018	XLN02006	0.451
16	8	"Chapter 16"	Jeremy Webb	Noah Hawley & Jordan Crair	May22,2018	XLN02008	0.409
17	9	"Chapter 17"	Noah Hawley	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	May29,2018	XLN02011	0.362
18	10	"Chapter 18"	Dana Gonzales	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	June5,2018	XLN02009	0.467
19	11	"Chapter 19"	Keith Gordon	Noah Hawley	June12,2018	XLN02010	0.315
Close ▲
Season 3 (2019)
Main article: Legion (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
20	1	"Chapter 20"	Andrew Stanton	Noah Hawley and Nathaniel Halpern	June24,2019	XLN03001	0.377
21	2	"Chapter 21"	Carlos López Estrada	Noah Hawley and Olivia Dufault & Kate Thulin	July1,2019	XLN03002	0.381
22	3	"Chapter 22"	John Cameron	Nathaniel Halpern	July8,2019	XLN03003	0.370
23	4	"Chapter 23"	Daniel Kwan	Olivia Dufault and Charles Yu	July15,2019	XLN03004	0.277
24	5	"Chapter 24"	Arkasha Stevenson	Olivia Dufault and Ben H. Winters	July22,2019	XLN03005	0.288
25	6	"Chapter 25"	John Cameron	Noah Hawley	July29,2019	XLN03006	0.332
26	7	"Chapter 26"	Dana Gonzales	Noah Hawley and Olivia Dufault	August5,2019	XLN03007	0.288
27	8	"Chapter 27"	Noah Hawley and John Cameron	Noah Hawley and Olivia Dufault	August12,2019	XLN03008	0.365
Close ▲
Pre-production
Development
Creator Noah Hawley set out to create a fresh take on the superhero genre.
Creator Noah Hawley set out to create a fresh take on the superhero genre.
After completing work on the first season of Fargo at FX in 2014, Noah Hawley was presented with the opportunity to develop the first live-action television series based on the X-Men comics, of which he was a fan when growing up. Hawley was initially pitched two different ideas for the potential series, including an adaptation of the comics' Hellfire Club, but the ideas did not interest him. Instead, he worked with X-Men film series writer and producer Simon Kinberg to reverse-engineer an idea for the series. After discussing an "interesting show in this genre ... that isn't being done", the two settled on the character of David Haller / Legion. Hawley found the character interesting because of his mental illness, and for the potential of the series to depict his unique mindset. He pitched the series as "a deconstruction of a villain ... and a love story".

In October 2015, FX ordered a pilot for Legion, with Marvel Television and FX Productions producing, with the latter handling the physical production. Hawley was set to write the pilot, and executive produce the series alongside X-Men film producers Lauren Shuler Donner, Bryan Singer, and Kinberg, Marvel Television executives Jeph Loeb and Jim Chory, and Hawley's Fargo collaborator John Cameron. Steve Blackman, Alan Fine, Stan Lee, Joe Quesada, and Karim Zreik also executive produce. Hawley's initial script for the series was described as "less fractured", "cohesive [and] much more regular." However, he quickly reconceived the series and decided "more Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Terrence Malick, more whimsy, more impressionistic.". By January 2016, FX President John Landgraf was confident that the series would be picked up by the network, saying that "the vast majority of things that we pilot do go forward to series" and "the scripts [for Legion] are extraordinary." That May, FX ordered an eight-episode first season of Legion.

In June, Landgraf said that the series, if successful, could run for as many seasons as Hawley feels it needs to tell the story. Discussing future seasons, Hawley said in January 2017 that he was open to continuing the story past the first season, but didn't want the audience to get to the end of the first run and have "no resolution of any kind at the end of it." Star Dan Stevens said, "I know for a fact that there are more issues that David has to deal with than the one that we really address in the first season." Also at that time, Singer explained the executive producers' roles in the series, saying that he, Donner, and Kinberg brought their experience from making the X-Men films, but their involvement generally consisted of giving small notes on scripts and early cuts of episodes.

Writing
Kinberg teased in November 2015 that the series would tell "X-Men stories in a slightly different way and even with a slightly different tone" from the films, noting the differences in tone between the "operatic" X-Men films and the "irreverent and hysterical" Deadpool, and feeling that Legion gives "us an opportunity to go even further ... in some ways to sort of blow up the paradigm of comic book or superhero stories and almost do our Breaking Bad of superhero stories." Loeb noted that "the core" of all X-Men comic books has always been that "the X-Men were different ... We live in a world right now where diversity and uniqueness and whether or not we fit in is something that's on our minds twenty-four hours a day." Hawley added, "The great thing about exploring this character is before he has an opinion about anyone else, he has to figure out his own shit. That's what we all have to do. This journey isn't necessarily racing toward a battle with an entity, so much as embracing the battle within."

In May 2016, Hawley described his take on the series as being inspired by the works of David Lynch, and said that "the structure of a story should reflect the content of the story. If the story, as in this case, is about a guy who is either schizophrenic or he has these abilities, i.e., he doesn't know what's real and what's not real, then the audience should have the same experience ... my goal with this is to do something whimsical and imaginative and unexpected. Not just because I want to do something different, but because it feels like the right way to tell this story." Elaborating on structuring the series to reflect Haller's point of view, Hawley said, "I love the idea that even when you're in it on the journey, there is this Alice in Wonderland quality to it, of a story within a story." Discussing the increasing popularity of unreliable narrators in television, Hawley said that he wanted to avoid making the audience think that the series is a puzzle that needs to be solved by solving the mysteries for them upfront—"We're going to take a character out of confusion into clarity and an audience out of mystery into clarity." Hawley deliberately chose not to directly adapt any storylines from the comics, feeling that "you're bound to offend somebody, no matter what you do" in that situation. Instead, he wanted to take the character of Legion and basic set-up around him, and "play" with that, which he described in relation to Fargo—"my job was not to remake the movie, to sort of retell a story that had already been told, but to try to tell a different story with the same effect, the same impact."

Concerning the mental illness aspects of the character, Hawley said, "It's a tragic condition that people have, and so I don't want to use it for entertainment purposes ... if we can ground that [aspect] for the audience, then the idea that he's fallen in love and that he's not ill, there's a hope to that that the audience is gonna grab onto." In January 2017, Hawley explained that he was willing to use different tropes from the superhero genre in the series, such as superhero costumes with capes, if necessary, but did want to avoid "sending a message that all conflict can only be resolved through battle. There is a sense in a lot of these stories that everything always builds to a big fight ... I wanted to find a story that was just as exciting and interesting but doesn't send the message that in the end that 'might makes right'."

At the end of the first season, Hawley said, "I like this idea of having to face our demons", with the first season seeing Haller go through an internal struggle with the malevolent Shadow King occupying his mind, and then the second season seeing that character possess someone else "making it an exterior agent. And there's going to be something very complicated about going to war with himself. It's been with him since he was a baby, it's like a phantom limb now, it's part of him." Hawley said he preferred this idea of a villain "worthy of creating a whole story around", rather than a villain-of-the year. He was unsure at the time how long that storyline would continue throughout the show, but said "it's a fascinating setup to follow."

Casting
Dan Stevens, who portrays lead character David Haller.
Dan Stevens, who portrays lead character David Haller.
In January 2016, Rachel Keller was cast as the female lead of the series, after her breakout role in Fargo. In early February, Stevens, Aubrey Plaza, and Jean Smart were cast as Haller, his friend Lenny Busker, and therapist Melanie Bird, respectively. Keller's role was revealed to be Syd Barrett. Later that month, Jeremie Harris was cast in the regular role of Ptonomy Wallace, and Amber Midthunder was cast as the savant Kerry Loudermilk. In March, Katie Aselton was cast as Haller's older sister Amy. With the full series order in May 2016, Bill Irwin was added to the cast, in the role of Cary Loudermilk.

Stevens, Keller, Plaza, Irwin, Harris, Midthunder, and Smart returned for the second season, with Aselton making a guest appearance in the season before Amy's body is transformed into a new one for Busker. They are joined by Navid Negahban, cast as the true form of the Shadow King, a character that appeared in several different forms throughout the first season. Jemaine Clement and Hamish Linklater also star in the second season, after having guest roles during the first season as Oliver Bird, the husband of Melanie, and the "Interrogator" Clark Debussy, respectively.

Season 3 added relative newcomer Lauren Tsai as Switch, "a young mutant whose secret ability serves as the key to executing David Haller's plan". She is loosely based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. In February, it was announced that the characters Gabrielle Haller and Charles Xavier would appear, played by Stephanie Corneliussen and Harry Lloyd, respectively; Prior to Lloyd's casting, Patrick Stewart was approached about reprising his role as Xavier from the film series.

Clement and Smart return as Oliver and Melanie Bird, respectively, as guest stars.

Design
Though he put little thought into the aesthetics of the series when writing the pilot, as a director Hawley wanted the series to be highly stylized, describing his vision for it as "a 1964 Terence Stamp movie". It was not feasible to literally translate Bill Sienkiewicz's iconic artwork of the character to the screen, and Hawley wanted the series to have "its own visual aesthetic to it, and part of that is being a story kind of out of time and out of place". He stated that "the design of a show has to have its own internal logic", and compared this sensibility to the series Hannibal, which he said was "a great example of something that had this almost fetishistic beauty to everything that you saw, whether it was food or violence." Hawley elaborated that the design choice of 60s British films came about because "this whole show is not the world, it's David's experience of the world. He's piecing his world together from nostalgia and memory and the world becomes that."

Production
Pilot
Filming for the pilot took place in Vancouver, with Hawley directing and Dana Gonzales serving as cinematographer. With the series order, the rest of the first season were set to also film in Vancouver, with Craig Wrobleski also working as a cinematographer. Both Gonzales and Wrobleski previously worked with Hawley on Fargo. The pilot featured a large amount of in-camera effects, which Hawley admitted would be a challenge for the series' directors to maintain, given he had 21 days to film the pilot, but the subsequent episodes were only scheduled 8 days of filming each. Some of these shoots ultimately had to be extended to 10 or 11 days filming to meet Hawley's vision.

Music
Jeff Russo was revealed to be composing the series' score in October 2016. Hawley stated that when first meeting with Russo about the series, he told the latter that he wanted the series to sound like Pink Floyd's The Dark Side of the Moon, explaining "that album more than anything is really the soundscape of mental illness to some degree". Russo felt that "the important part is allowing the humanity of these characters to really shine through", and in addition to an orchestra he used "a bunch of old synthesizers" and "a lot of interesting sound design" to represent the "otherworldly" elements of the series. With the series' premiere, Russo reiterated that the "through-line" of the series is the relationship between Haller and Barrett, and said that a love story "lends itself to musical moments. It allows it to underscore the character." After his early meetings with Hawley, Russo developed some initial ideas for the score, and created three different themes to represent Haller. He adapted these ideas to fit the episodes once they had been edited. A soundtrack album for the first season was released digitally on February 24, 2017, on Amazon.com.

Legacy
In March, FX ordered a second season of the series. With the end of the first season, Hawley said that the second season would consist of ten episodes, and explained that he was unsure at that time how long he would like the series to run: "I think there were things about the first season that [I felt] would unfold faster than they did, and things that I thought would take longer that I dealt with more quickly. I think by the end of the second year I'll have a better sense of how many more years there are to go."

Singer was removed as an executive producer on the series in January 2018, and his name was removed from the credits of the series' episodes beginning with the second season, due to sexual abuse allegations against him being made. Hawley said that it had been Singer who had asked for his name to be removed, and that Singer had only had limited involvement with the series anyway; he had initially expressed interest in directing the pilot of the series, but had not been directly involved since Hawley took over.

Also in January, Hawley stated that he was planning for a third season of the series, and soon elaborated that the second season would clearly lead in to the third, and that "it's not a show where each year there's a new villain and the end of the table. It's a three or four or five act story where each season is another chapter in that story." In March, he discussed the proposed acquisition of 21st Century Fox by Disney, saying that he was unsure how it would affect the series and that he had not discussed the issue with either studio, but that he believed "as long as the show is making noise and is watched by people, I won't be worried that they're going to cancel Legion because it doesn't fit in with their larger brand."

In June 2018, FX renewed Legion for a third season. In February 2019, Hawley said that the third season would premiere in June 2019, and would be the final season of the series, which he said had always been his intent. On May 2, 2019, FX said the final season would premiere on June 24, 2019.

For the second season, the series relocated its production to California to take advantage of tax incentives provided by the California Film Commission under its "Program 2.0" initiative.

Shared universe connections
Landgraf stated, in January 2016, that the series would be set in a universe parallel to the X-Men films where "the US government is in the early days of being aware that something called mutants exist but the public is not". He felt it was unlikely that characters would cross over between the show and films, but noted that this could change between then and the premiere of the series. That July, an article on Marvel.com referred to Legion as one of several characters joining the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), suggesting that Legion would be set in that shared universe like Marvel Television's other series. The next month, Singer said that Legion had actually been designed to fit into the X-Men universe, but also to stand alone, so "you wouldn't have to label" the relationship between the series and the films. He teased plans to have the series "relate to future X-Men movies".

At New York Comic Con 2016, Donner said that the series is "far from the X-Men movies, but still lives in that universe. The only way for X-Men to keep moving forward is to be original and to surprise. And this is a surprise. It is very, very different." Hawley explained that because the series is depicting the title character's "subjective reality", it would not have to address any connections to the films straight away, noting that Fargo, which is connected to the 1996 film of the same name, at first "had to stand on its own feet" before exploring those connections more; "We have to earn the right to be part of this universe. My hope is we create something so strong that the people in the movie studio call and say they would be foolish enough not to connect these things." He did state that "you can't tell this story without" acknowledging that Legion is the son of the incarnation of Charles Xavier who appears in the films (portrayed by Patrick Stewart and James McAvoy). In regards to the MCU, Loeb stated that his involvement in the series was a sign that "bridges are being made" between Marvel and Fox, "but I don't want to make any promises ... Marvel heroes at their core are people who are damaged and are trying to figure out who they are in life. It doesn't matter whether or not they're X-Men, Tony Stark, Matt Murdock or Peter Parker ... If you start at a place as strong as David's character is and you have a storyteller like Noah, then it's Marvel. In that way, it is all connected." Set designer Michael Wylie had tried to put Roxxon Corporation and Stark Industries logos as Easter eggs in Legion but was not allowed to since Legion existed in a separate universe than Marvel Television's MCU-related series.

Loeb and Donner stated in January 2017 that there were no plans to have Legion be the first in a series of connected shows on FX, like Marvel Television's group of interconnected Defenders series on Netflix, and that Legion and the X-Men series being developed for Fox are "not going to get in each other's way." Donner stated that the series was just a chance to bring an X-Men character to the screen who was not going to be used by the films. The producers hoped that audiences would watch the show because of its character-focus and the talents of Hawley and the cast, rather than to "see a Marvel franchise show." Donner also noted that having Hawley focus on Haller's perspective of reality rather than connections to the X-Men films allowed the series to avoid the convoluted continuity of the films, "because we play with so many different timelines, and we rebooted and not really rebooted and all that" throughout the films. Therefore, "the cinematic universe will not worry about Legion. They will not worry about these TV worlds at all. They will just continue in the way that they have been continuing." For the onscreen confirmation that Xavier is Haller's father in "Chapter 7", with Xavier's signature wheelchair shown in a brief flashback, the series' production was able to choose from any of the variant wheelchairs used throughout the film series. They settled on the version from X-Men: Apocalypse, with the prop used in that film being brought out of storage for the show.

Prior to Harry Lloyd's casting as a young Charles Xavier in the third season, in March 2017, Patrick Stewart was approached about reprising his role as Xavier from the film series, saying he was "Absolutely 100%" willing to reprise the role; while having Stewart return as a present-day Xavier had been "seriously considered" by showrunner Noah Hawley, he elected the older character's presence to be unnecessary upon deciding to have the season revolve around time travel, casting Lloyd instead after finding James McAvoy to be unavailable for filming.

Broadcast and release
Legion aired on FX in the United States, and on Fox channels in over 125 other countries, releasing using a "day-and-date" delivery system so that viewers around the world get the series on the same day as the U.S.; Fox Networks Group's sales division handles distribution of the series to third parties.

Home media
The first season was released on Blu-ray and DVD in region 1 on March 27, 2018, in region 2 on October 2, 2017, and in region 4 on November 22, 2017. The second season was released as a manufacture on demand DVD in region 1 on October 30, 2018.

Outside the U.S, all 3 seasons of Legion are available to stream on Disney+ and can be found in the Star or Marvel hubs.

Reception
Ratings
Writing for Screen Rant, J.M. Brandt noted that FX extensively advertised the series, but was debuting the 90 minute (with commercials) premiere at 10:00pm on a Wednesday night, later than other genre "monster hits" like Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead. Brandt felt that the series' success would heavily depend on DVR viewing "to bolster what might be a likely smallish live audience". Following the series premiere, Legion's debut ratings were described as "OK, not great", in line with other cable series debuts, but lower than other high-profile FX debuts such as American Crime Story and Hawley's own Fargo.

Legion: U.S. viewers per episode (millions)
Season	Episode number	Average
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
1	1.622	1.133	1.043	0.750	0.795	0.732	0.716	0.812	–	0.950
2	0.669	0.439	0.380	0.434	0.456	0.353	0.451	0.409	0.362	0.467	0.315	0.430
3	0.377	0.381	0.370	0.277	0.288	0.332	0.288	0.265	–	0.335
Audience measurement performed by Nielsen Media Research
Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
The review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 90% approval rating for the first season, with an average rating of 8.45/10 based on 237 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Bold, intelligent, and visually arresting, Legion is a masterfully surreal and brilliantly daring departure from traditional superhero conceits." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 82 out of 100 based on 40 reviews for the season, indicating what the website considers to be "universal acclaim".

Ben Travers from IndieWire called the first season "the most intricate, intimate superhero story to date." Travers praised the relatability and uniqueness of the show and how it never lost his interest. He wrote that "David's story is one quickly identifiable to anyone who's questioned themselves, and yet wholly unique to his one-of-a-kind point of view. The combination of character and presentation makes for constantly fascinating television." Travers was especially impressed with the quality of Legion's set pieces and the performances of the main cast. He writes "the sets could be admired independent of the show if they didn't add so much to it, and the entire production raises its artistry to a level atypical of superhero stories (and at least on par with the best design on TV)" and "toss in dynamite performances (Jean Smart, we owe you a rave) matched by sizzling editing most Marvel movies would envy, and boom — 'Legion' is top-tier TV, right off the bat." His final grade of the first season was an A.

A 91% approval rating for the second season was reported by Rotten Tomatoes, with an average rating of 7.75/10 based on 160 reviews, and a critical consensus reading, "Legion returns with a smart, strange second season that settles into a straighter narrative without sacrificing its unique sensibilities." Metacritic assigned a score of 85 out of 100 based on 10 reviews for the season, indicating "universal acclaim".

David Fear from Rolling Stone called Legion "the most mindblowing show on TV right now." He wrote that the show as a whole "keeps pushing the boundaries of the genre - then obliterates them entirely." Fear has heavy praise for season 2's uniqueness, and specifically praises a key scene in the first episode where the titular character Legion and his arch nemesis the Shadow King have a dance battle and relates it back to how he enjoys the show as a whole. He writes "Since Legion's sophomore season started airing in April, I have watched this Bob-Fosse-meets-Maori-tribal-dance scene several dozen times. Every time I see it, I think: It makes no sense. It makes complete sense. It is self-indulgent, and utterly insane, and 19 different kinds of perfect. It inspires a total and utter sense of bliss. It's familiar, riddled with pastiche and shout-outs, and totally sui generis. It is, in a way, exactly how I feel about Legion as a whole."

Allison Shoemaker from Consequence has a less positive review of the show. Shoemaker wrote that season 2 "looks great and not much else" and that it "ends on a note that's hollow and hard to accept." Shoemaker also criticizes the character development of some of the side characters, and thought that they were very underdeveloped. She wrote "when you fall in love with a show, you sometimes make excuses for awhile and hope it gets its shit together. 'Well, Lenny is fascinating,' you say, justifying the paper-thin characterizations (and not just of women; Ptonomy, Oliver, and Clark are also all underdeveloped.)." Shoemaker's overall verdict of the season was that "There's so much mess and emptiness. Looks great. Less filling." She gave the finale a D+ grade and the overall season a C+.

Rotten Tomatoes reported a 93% approval rating for the third season, with an average rating of 7.9/10 based on 71 reviews. and a critical consensus reading, "In its final season, Legion remains a singular piece of visually arresting, mind-bending television that never fails to surprise." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 72 out of 100 based on 6 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Tim Goodman from The Hollywood Reporter called the third season "weirdly told and wonderfully acted" but also cautioned viewers to not "get hung up on the plot." He gives this warning because he believes that viewers tend to get disappointed when TV shows do not line up with their exact expectations for the plot and writes that "if you were expecting something predictable or literal, well, you weren't paying attention from the very first frame." Goodman reviewed the first four episodes of the third season and wrote that he was "loving the direction the third and final season of Legion is going in because it has been less about Marvel and more about Hawley and, given the television track record of each, I'll take the latter every time." His main thoughts on the first half of season 3 are that "Hawley is once again having a blast reimagining a Marvel superhero show and that "he is tripling down on the visual gymnastics and mind-altering aspects."

In a less favorable review with a similar critique to Shoemaker's review of Season 2, David Sims from The Atlantic called the third season "visually dazzling, but little else." He writes that "The set design is striking, and Hawley's direction even more so: The pilot is rife with elaborately choreographed shots in which not a detail is out of place. It's truly cinematic stuff that deserves to be taken in on the biggest screen possible." However, he critiques the show for not being able to stick to one main message and having messily delivered themes, which makes the overall story weaker. He wrote that the show "isn't sure if it wants to be a show about David's abilities, or about mental illness" and that "it tries so hard to dazzle that it forgets to tell a meaningful story."

Analysis
Discussing the series' exploration of mental illness, Charles Pulliam-Moore of io9 stated that schizophrenia is widely featured in popular culture and is generally misrepresented and noted that giving Haller schizophrenia was a change from the comics where the character had dissociative identity disorder. He felt that the series takes advantage of this change both to show "mind-bending, trippy moments meant to convey to viewers how fractured and disorienting David's perceptions of reality can be" and by having characters like Melanie Bird insist that Haller can improve with treatment and counselling. Pulliam-Moore explained that other telepaths with mental illnesses in the X-Men franchise—Jason Stryker in X2, Jean Grey in X-Men: The Last Stand, and Charles Xavier in Logan—were all treated with drugs, and praised the alternative therapy explored in the series, as well as the fact that the removal of the Shadow King from Haller's mind was not an excuse to ignore the mental illness issues moving forward. He concluded, "It's that idea—that healing is an ongoing, complex, and dynamic process—that made Legion's first season so strong", and hoped that it would be continued in the second season of the series.

Tony Stallings from Hollywood Insider also discussed Legion's take on mental illness and mental health problems. He wrote that the show "is the first of its kind, as no other series in its genre has addressed the issue of mental health within the makeup of a superhero show quite like it has before or since." He thought that the show's choice to connect "David's power with his mental instability raises the stakes" and that "it makes David as much of a danger to his friends as he is to his enemies despite noble intentions." Stallings thought that Hawley provided an accurate and closer look at mental illness with the show's writing and that "he demonstrates how severely it can impact people's lives by weaponizing David's disorder into potentially lethal powers and shows how important it is for David to get the treatment he needs to keep everyone around him safe." In his opinion, the show's best take on mental health is that it shows that "treatment itself is more than just medicine or pills. The most important treatment is support."

Accolades
Table info: Year, Award, Category, Recipient, Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	RECIPIENT	RESULT	REF.
2017	TVLine's Performer of the Week	Performance in "Chapter 6"	Aubrey Plaza	Won
Golden Trailer Awards	Best Sound Editing (TV Spot/Trailer/Teaser for a series)	Legion	Won
Saturn Awards	Best Superhero Adaptation Television Series	Legion	Nominated
Camerimage International Film Festival	First Look – TV Pilots Competition	Dana Gonzales for "Chapter 1"	Nominated
IGN's Best of 2017 Awards	TV series of the year	Legion	Nominated
Best New Series	Legion	People's Choice
Best Action Series	Legion	Runner-Up (tied)
Best Dramatic TV Performance	Dan Stevens	Nominated
2018	TVLine's Performer of the Week	Performance in "Chapter 19"	Dan Stevens	Won
Satellite Awards	Best Television Series – Genre	Legion	Nominated
ASC Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography in Regular Series for Commercial Television	Dana Gonzales for "Chapter 1"	Nominated
Visual Effects Society Awards	Outstanding Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	John Ross, Eddie Bonin, Sebastian Bergeron, Lionel Lim, Paul Benjamin for "Chapter 1"	Nominated
Empire Awards	Best TV Actor	Dan Stevens	Nominated
GLAAD Media Awards	Outstanding Individual Episode (in a series without a regular LGBTQ character)	"Chapter 8"	Nominated
Peabody Awards	Entertainment	Legion	Nominated
MTV Movie & TV Awards	Best Villain	Aubrey Plaza	Nominated
2019	ASC Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography in Regular Series for Commercial Television	Dana Gonzales for "Chapter 20"	Nominated
Polly Morgan for "Chapter 23"	Nominated
2020	Harvey Award	Best Adaptation from Comic Book/Graphic Novel	Legion: Season 3	Nominated
Close ▲
References
External links
Legion
X-Men in television
Live-action TV series based on Marvel Comics publications
Noah Hawley
FX original programming
Legion (season 1)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
X-Men (film series)
Marvel Television
Noah Hawley
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Legion (season 1)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The first season of the American cable television series Legion is based on the Marvel Comics character David Haller / Legion, a mutant diagnosed with schizophrenia at a young age, who learns that his illness may actually be abilities. The season is connected to the X-Men film series, and was produced by FX Productions in association with Marvel Television. Noah Hawley served as showrunner.

Quick facts: Legion, Starring, Country of origin, No. of e... ▼
Close ▲
Dan Stevens stars as Haller, with Rachel Keller, Aubrey Plaza, Bill Irwin, Jeremie Harris, Amber Midthunder, Katie Aselton, and Jean Smart also starring in the season. FX ordered a pilot for Legion in October 2015, which Hawley wrote and directed. The show was picked up to series in May 2016. Filming took place in Vancouver, with a focus on in-camera effects over visual effects. Hawley wanted to show Haller as an "unreliable narrator", with the series mixing retro and modern designs, using unconventional filming and musical techniques, and being structured so the audience is unsure what is real. The narrative becomes clearer throughout the season as Haller gains knowledge, and the villainous Shadow King is revealed. The latter takes several forms, including one portrayed by Plaza.

The season premiered at the Pacific Design Center on January 26, 2017, ahead of its FX debut on February 8. It ran for eight episodes, until March 29. The season received critical acclaim for its cast, particularly Stevens; Hawley's visuals and design; and the nonlinear, unreliable nature of the storytelling. Several critics did note that the latter aspects would not be for all viewers, and some criticized this as just the latest in a trend of series with unreliable narratives. Legion was renewed for a second season on March 15, 2017.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"Chapter 1"	Noah Hawley	Noah Hawley	February8,2017	XLN01001	1.622
David Haller is being interrogated by government officials who believe he may be the most powerful mutant discovered. He explains that he was diagnosed as schizophrenic when he was young, and was taken to Clockworks Psychiatric Hospital after attempting to commit suicide. He spent six years as a patient there, during which time he met Sydney "Syd" Barrett, a girl who refused to be touched. She agreed to be his girlfriend, but was eventually discharged from the hospital. Before she left, David kissed her goodbye, causing their minds to switch bodies. Losing control, Syd unleashed abilities from David's body that killed his friend Lenny Busker and trapped the other patients in their rooms. David was evacuated in Syd's body. Later, David's body returned to him, and he went looking for Syd. David found himself being chased by two people until he was captured by the government. Now those two people, Ptonomy Wallace and Kerry Loudermilk, break into the interrogation site with Syd to rescue David and take him to Melanie Bird.
2	2	"Chapter 2"	Michael Uppendahl	Noah Hawley	February15,2017	XLN01002	1.133
At Summerland, Melanie's facility, David begins "memory work" with Ptonomy, who remembers everything and can enter others' memories. Melanie explains that David had been captured by Division 3, a government agency focused on capturing and studying mutants. She instead wants to help David, by showing him that the onset of his "illness" was just his powers manifesting. In David's childhood memories, he is haunted by a children's book his father read to him, The World's Angriest Boy in the World, in which the title character murders his mother. In his memories before his admission to Clockworks, David took drugs with Lenny to try block out the voices he hears. Melanie places David in an MRI scanner to study how his brain works, during which he accidentally projects his mind to present day Clockworks, where his sister Amy is looking for him. Amy is detained by Division 3, causing David to panic and teleport the MRI scanner outside Summerland. David races to save Amy, but Syd convinces him to wait and master his powers first.
3	3	"Chapter 3"	Michael Uppendahl	Peter Calloway	February22,2017	XLN01003	1.043
David continues memory work with Ptonomy and Melanie, exploring his time taking drugs before his admission to Clockworks. As they watch this unfold, David is haunted by apparitions, his mind works against Ptonomy's powers, and he accidentally teleports their physical bodies to a different room. While undergoing more tests, David again loses control, projecting both his mind and Syd's to Division 3, where they find Amy being interrogated. One of her interrogators, a mutant called the Eye, sees these projections before they return to their bodies. Melanie explains that the Eye is Walter, one of the founders of Summerland, alongside her missing husband Oliver and the scientist Cary Loudermilk. Desperate for a breakthrough with David, Melanie sedates him to a point where she, Ptonomy, and Syd can enter his mind and explore freely. However, his "memories" work against them, with a manifestation of the World's Angriest Boy in the World chasing them through a version of David's childhood home, until all three are forced out of David's head.
4	4	"Chapter 4"	Larysa Kondracki	Nathaniel Halpern	March1,2017	XLN01004	0.750
David does not wake up from the sedative, and the others are unable to trust the "memories" that they have seen. To investigate what actually happened before David was admitted to Clockworks, Melanie sends Syd, Ptonomy, and Kerry—a warrior woman who lives inside Cary and only comes out for "action"—to find David's ex-girlfriend Philly. Ptonomy enters Philly's memories, and investigates the office of David's old psychologist Poole, and learns that David's friend was a man named Benny (not a woman named Lenny), and that David attacked Poole, who now lives in a lighthouse. At the lighthouse, the trio begin discussing David with Poole, until he reveals himself to be the Eye, with the lighthouse surrounded by Division 3 soldiers. Meanwhile, David's mind is lost in the astral plane, where he comes across a trapped Oliver. David refuses to wait for rescue with Oliver, and instead escapes himself with encouragement from an apparition of Lenny. David rescues the others from the Eye, who shoots Kerry as he escapes.
5	5	"Chapter 5"	Tim Mielants	Peter Calloway	March8,2017	XLN01005	0.795
Kerry is brought back to Summerland, where Cary heals her. David tells Melanie about Oliver, and demonstrates his mastery of the astral plane by creating a room where he and Syd can be together without her physical powers interfering. David soon escapes to rescue Amy, and Melanie's team arrives at Division 3 to find almost everyone murdered by David. After going over David's scans, Cary deduces that David's mind is infected with a parasite that he knows as the gruesome Devil with Yellow Eyes. David takes Amy to their childhood home, where she reveals that he was adopted; Lenny appears to emerge from David's mind and explains that she has been in control of his body. Melanie's team tracks them to the house, followed by the Eye, and find Lenny attacking David. The Eye shoots at David, and Syd has him take them to their astral room. There David is helpless as the Devil with Yellow Eyes attacks Syd, until he wills their entire group to an astral fantasy: as patients at Clockworks under the care of Lenny.
6	6	"Chapter 6"	Hiro Murai	Nathaniel Halpern	March15,2017	XLN01006	0.732
In the shared hallucination, Lenny discusses personal issues with each of the team, such as Melanie's refusal to let go of her long-missing husband, Ptonomy's vivid memory of his mother dying when he was a child, and Cary and Kerry's co-dependency. Though most of the group are unaware of the true nature of their surroundings, Syd notices that their new reality is different from some of her memories. Lenny confronts Syd, and places her in a coma. Cary is visited by Oliver, who takes him to his home on the astral plane. Kerry looks for Cary, but is attacked and chased by the Eye. Oliver appears to Melanie, and leads her to the physical room where their bodies are. Time appears to them to have slowed, with their physical bodies frozen and the bullets shot by the Eye having not yet reached Syd and David. Lenny, who is shown to be another form of the Devil with Yellow Eyes, reveals that she once knew David's biological father and specifically targeted David. She then shows her control of David's mind by locking him in a corner of his own mind.
7	7	"Chapter 7"	Dennie Gordon	Jennifer Yale	March22,2017	XLN01007	0.716
On the astral plane, Oliver explains to Cary that he has been watching David and believes this parasite is Amahl Farouk, the Shadow King, a powerful mutant that they are both aware of. Cary explains that his physical body holds a device that may be able to temporarily isolate the parasite from David's mind. Cary wakes Syd, and sends her to help the others, while he, Oliver, and Melanie attempt to affect the physical world by getting the device to David. Farouk as Lenny attacks Syd, Kerry, and the Eye, killing the latter (his physical body dies as well). David realizes that Farouk and his father were both powerful mutants who had fought some time ago, with Farouk losing. His father then put David up for adoption to protect him from Farouk, but the latter was able to find David and infect his mind since he was young. With the device locking Farouk away in David's mind, he returns to his physical body and catches the bullets. The group then return to Summerland, but are attacked there by Division 3 soldiers. Farouk begins to break free.
8	8	"Chapter 8"	Michael Uppendahl	Noah Hawley	March29,2017	XLN01008	0.812
During David's initial breakout from Division 3, Clark, his interrogator, was severely burned. Clark struggles to recover, but insists on returning to field work. Clark leads Division 3's soldiers to Summerland, but David uses his powers to easily subdue them. David captures Clark and negotiates with him; Clark's superiors watch through a camera hidden in his prosthetic eye. Cary and Oliver try to extract Farouk, who is getting stronger, from David. Farouk uses David's mind to talk to Syd, and warns her that David will not survive the extraction. Syd decides to kiss David, transferring Farouk to her own body. Farouk leaves Syd and enters Kerry, and uses her to fight off the others until he is confronted by David. David forces Farouk from Kerry, but unknowingly into Oliver's body. Farouk escapes Summerland in Oliver's body, while Clark agrees to work with the mutants to stop him. Later, David is miniaturized and trapped by a drone-like device.
Close ▲
Cast and characters
Main article: List of Legion characters
Main
Dan Stevens as David Haller
Rachel Keller as Sydney "Syd" Barrett
Aubrey Plaza as Lenny Busker
Bill Irwin as Cary Loudermilk
Jeremie Harris as Ptonomy Wallace
Amber Midthunder as Kerry Loudermilk
Katie Aselton as Amy Haller
Jean Smart as Melanie Bird
Recurring
Hamish Linklater as Clark
David Selby as Brubaker
Ellie Araiza as Philly
Brad Mann as Rudy
Quinton Boisclair as the Devil with the Yellow Eyes
Mackenzie Gray as Walter / The Eye
Scott Lawrence as Henry Poole
Devyn Dalton as the Angry Boy
Jemaine Clement as Oliver Bird
Production
Development
In October 2015, FX ordered a pilot for Legion, with Marvel Television and FX Productions producing; FX Productions would handle the physical production. Hawley was set to write the pilot, and executive produce the series alongside X-Men film producers Lauren Shuler Donner, Bryan Singer, and Kinberg, Marvel Television executives Jeph Loeb and Jim Chory, and Hawley's Fargo collaborator John Cameron. Steve Blackman, Alan Fine, Stan Lee, Joe Quesada, and Karim Zreik also executive produce. By January 2016, FX President John Landgraf was confident that the series would be picked up by the network, probably for ten episodes; that May, FX ordered an eight-episode first season of Legion. Landgraf later explained that only eight episodes were ordered because FX wanted Hawley to run the series at his own pace rather than try and "pad" it out.

Writing
Showrunner Noah Hawley chose to develop Legion due to the character's mental illness and the potential to create an unconventional superhero series.
Showrunner Noah Hawley chose to develop Legion due to the character's mental illness and the potential to create an unconventional superhero series.
Hawley first developed the idea of a series about Haller with Kinberg, after asking the question "is there an interesting show in this genre, and is there a character in that show?" He noted that series such as Marvel's Netflix shows and Preacher had not been released at that point. Hawley was specifically interested in exploring the character of David Haller because of his mental illness, and for the potential of the series to depict his unique mindset. He pitched the series as "a deconstruction of a villain ... and a love story".

Hawley's first thought when "looking at the genre is if we remove the genre, is there a compelling show you want to watch there?" He decided to center the series on the "idea of this epic love story and then putting the genre back into it" and layering elements such as mental illness and special abilities on that foundation Hawley's initial script for Legion was described by Donner as "less fractured", "cohesive [and] much more regular." However, he quickly reconceived the series "and decided more Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Terrence Malick, more whimsy, more impressionistic and went in that direction." This was in part due to Hawley's desire to depict a "more existential exploration" and a "surreal or dreamlike quality where it's not just about running and kicking." He was inspired by the works of David Lynch to have the series' structure reflect the content of the story. Explaining, Hawley noted that the series' protagonist "doesn't know what's real and what's not real, [so] the audience should have the same experience". Hawley added that "there is this Alice in Wonderland quality to it, of a story within a story." To acclimatize audiences to the different style of the series, taking into consideration that the show was given a late airtime and so "it's on at the end of their very long day", Hawley had several of the early episodes begin with a "hypnotic quality ... often [with] a little ethereal voice-over, to give the sense that we are not rooted in a physical time and place." The intent was to put audiences "in the state of mind to watch Legion."

Discussing the increasing popularity of unreliable narrators in television, Hawley said that he did not want the audience thinking that the series is a puzzle that needs to be solved, saying, "We're going to take a character out of confusion into clarity and an audience out of mystery into clarity"; this is seen in the season's latter episodes, which are more narratively straightforward after Haller becomes "clear on what's going on [and] we are as well." A noted sequence in the season's penultimate episode sees Haller explain the series' backstory and events to himself (and the audience)—Haller was institutionalized not because of his abilities, but because his mind had been infected by the Shadow King. Hawley wanted to indicate to the audience that this would be the only sequence in the series so exposition heavy, and so it features Haller creating a class room environment within his mind to make the teaching purpose of the scene explicit.

Hawley did not want the audience to get to the end of the first run and have "no resolution of any kind", and felt that by creating a complete story with a clear ending related to Haller's conflict with the Shadow King, audiences who were confused by the show's complicated narrative would be able to "feel like they got it through the coherent story." Hawley plotted this story out to take only "eight hours", which is why he asked FX for a shorter first season of eight episodes. Hawley noted that the characters' conflict is a metaphor for an internal struggle, given the Shadow King's position as a parasite within Haller's mind. He was also more interested in setting up a longer-running rivalry than having the antagonist be a "villain-of-the-year", and so the season leaves the character to be an external threat to Haller in the second season.

Casting
Aubrey Plaza's character dies in the first episode, but returns as one form of the Shadow King, a villainous mutant.
Aubrey Plaza's character dies in the first episode, but returns as one form of the Shadow King, a villainous mutant.
The main cast for the season includes Dan Stevens as David Haller, Rachel Keller as Sydney "Syd" Barrett, Aubrey Plaza as Lenny Busker, Bill Irwin as Cary Loudermilk, Jeremie Harris as Ptonomy Wallace, Amber Midthunder as Kerry Loudermilk, Katie Aselton as Amy Haller, and Jean Smart as Melanie Bird. Several members of the cast noted that they joined the series due to Hawley's involvement. Unlike the rest of the cast, Irwin's Cary Loudermilk is not introduced until the second episode. Hawley had sought to cast Irwin during filming on the pilot, before the character's role had been written, and "had to pitch him the weird, crazy character dynamic and that the show is about memory and identity". Irwin agreed to join the project based on this conversation.

Plaza initially met with Hawley for the female lead role of Syd Barrett, but Hawley instead asked her to portray the character of Lenny, who in the script was a man that dies by the end of the first episode. Plaza insisted that the character's dialogue not be changed for her, instead choosing to play the character as both male and female. This led to Busker "making crass remarks about women and muttering vintage phrases". In regards to the character's death, Hawley promised Plaza that "Lenny would be going on a very, very interesting journey." The character begins appearing as an apparition in Haller's mind, with Plaza saying that "Lenny is very important to David's story." In "Chapter 7", this apparition is revealed to be one form of the powerful mutant Amahl Farouk / Shadow King. Other forms that the character takes on in David's mind include the Devil with the Yellow Eyes, portrayed by Quinton Boisclair; the Angry Boy, a manifestation of the title character from the book The World's Angriest Boy in the World, portrayed by stunt woman Devyn Dalton; and King, David's childhood dog.

Hawley announced in October 2016 that Jemaine Clement would be joining the series in what was described as "a multi-episode arc", later revealed to be portraying Oliver Bird, Melanie's husband. In February 2017, David Selby announced that he would appear in 3 episodes of the season. He portrays Brubaker, a member of Division 3. Also, Ellie Araiza was cast in the recurring role of Philly, Haller's previous girlfriend. Other recurring actors in the show include Hamish Linklater as Clark, an interrogator for Division 3; Brad Mann as mutant fighter Rudy; Mackenzie Gray as Walter / The Eye; and Scott Lawrence as psychiatrist Henry Poole.

Design
Production designer Michael Wylie, who had previously worked on Marvel Television's Agent Carter, found designing for Legion to be more flexible than other series, due to the lack of set continuity from scene to scene, though Hawley was very specific about his ideas for the series, and provided Wylie with a 'lookbook' for the show when first interviewing him for the job. To avoid dating the series, elements such as cars are rarely shown, and when they are seen there is a mixture of modern-day cars and vehicles from the 60s. Clothing is also a mixture of present-day and past fashions, emulating a prediction of the future from the 60s or 70s. Wylie explained that the "story is being told from an unreliable narrator so we can do whatever we want." Visual inspiration was taken from the works of Stanley Kubrick, including A Clockwork Orange and 2001: A Space Odyssey.

Elaborating on the series' costumes, Carol Case, who also served as costume designer on Fargo, explained that she "didn't want anyone to be too locked into that 60s feel, because we were ultimately going for a 'no period' look." Case took the series' color palette from "60s rock bands—the golds and yellows and oranges and greens ... Noah said he wanted it to look like David was rescued by The Kinks". She then assigned colors from that palette to each lead character: Barrett wears orange and black; Carry and Kerry Loudermilk wear mostly navy and tan; Melanie Bird wear beige and pastel colors to "convey her role as a caretaker"; and Haller wears different blues and greys, though his palette was "more open than others', given that his character is a bit of a work in progress." Case sourced clothing from various vintage stores, but created other pieces from scratch, including all of the costumes worn by Katie Aselton which "are more deeply rooted in the Swinging Sixties aesthetic than others." The pink beanies worn by members of Division 3 were knitted by Case's sister and her friends for the series. Case deliberately avoided referencing any costumes from the comics "to take this story out of where people think it sits". For the patients of Clockworks Psychiatric Hospital, Case initially used "a bunch of space-age-y looks that didn't feel right", before settling on tracksuits with exaggerated collars to give them a "futuristic feel". The orange tracksuits include colored stripes to indicate the seriousness of each patient's diagnosis, ranging from white stripes for Barrett ("which puts her in the 'least crazy' category"), to yellow stripes for "moderate" Haller, and red stripes for Busker which "basically means she's never getting out of there." Busker's costumes evolve throughout the series to reflect her changing role, going from the orange and red focus to black and "businessy" clothes to show that "She's got a job to do, and she's determined to do it." Her design then become "unhinged"; eventually she wears a twizzler as a collar bar, after being seen eating them throughout the season.

The children's book The World's Angriest Boy in the World, which appears in Haller's memories of his childhood, was written by Hawley and published for use in the show. Stevens described it as "the world's most twisted children's book", but useful for him to hold and read while acting. The physical manifestation of the book's title character was inspired by Edward Gorey drawings, with Wylie explaining that he "loved the idea of him wearing a little velvet, Eddie Munster child's funeral suit. That's where that dude came from. He's really scary." Another manifestation of the Shadow King, the Devil with the Yellow Eyes, was inspired by the reality television series My 600-lb Life, with Wylie explaining, "They do this amazing thing at the beginning of every episode of that show where they show the person struggling to get out of bed or walk down a hallway ... They light it badly just to make the person's journey seem that much more difficult." Boisclair was cast in the role due to his 6ft 8in (2.03m) height and slender frame, with prosthetics used to give him a "gigantic body with no neck [that contrasts with his] really skinny arms and legs". Boisclair was called a "rare and lucky find", akin to Bolaji Badejo, who portrayed the alien in the 1979 film Alien. Boisclair's prosthetics were designed by Sarah Pickersgill, under special effects makeup head Todd Masters, and took four-and-a-half hours to apply. Masters' team were also responsible for creating the body parts that are found sticking out of walls in the pilot, including Lenny's upper body and arm, produced from a silicone copy of Plaza; extensive bruising for Cary and Kerry Loudermilk after a major fight sequence, which was achieved with Pros-Aide transfers that were reduced each day to show the wounds healing; and the burn makeup for Linklater after he is injured in the pilot, which was designed to cover half his face and most of his chest and back, with just the face and neck requiring five separate prosthetics. Marcine Peter at Contour Contact Lens provided hand-painted contact lenses for the production, including for Boisclair to wear as the Devil with the Yellow Eyes.

Several props from the X-Men films were brought to Vancouver for use in the series, from storage in the United States and Montreal (where the films are produced). Wylie was free to use these as he wished, with the series' mantra allowing him to "do something because you think it's cool, or that it's pretty". One such prop was Charles Xavier's wheelchair, with the series' production free to choose any version from throughout the film franchise; they settled on the prop used by James McAvoy in X-Men: Apocalypse.

Filming
Filming for the pilot began in March, in Vancouver, under the working title Clubhouse. Hawley directed the episode, with Dana Gonzales serving as cinematographer. Gonzales referenced Kubrick, Malick, and Paolo Sorrentino as influences on the filming style of the show, and said it was "more about building from the ground up than leveraging the look of [the Marvel] universe", with Gonzales not having seen any of the X-Men films. With the series order, the rest of the first season was set to start filming in August 2016, also in Vancouver. Gonzales served as cinematographer on another four episodes of the season, with Craig Wrobleski taking on the role for the other three episode. Both cinematographers previously worked with Hawley on Fargo. Filming for the season was completed by the end of November 2016.

Legion was filmed with Arri Alexa cameras, with two Alexa XT cameras and an Alexa Mini used for the pilot and then Minis used for the rest of the season; the footage was captured in 4K Ultra-high-definition. Gonzales described the series as "essentially a one-camera show", but "if we can get a bonus view [with a second camera] that doesn't compromise the look of A-camera, that's great." Lenses for the series were a mixture of spherical and anamorphic, including a 9.8 Kinoptik camera lens to film "some of the more bizarre mindscapes", which Kubrick used to film A Clockwork Orange. The Kinoptik lenses caused vignetting, which Gonzales would crop out of the image in post-production, though sometimes "we just left it" to add character. The series changes aspect ratio to reflect Haller's state of mind, "going narrower when he feels boxed in by the nefarious forces pursuing him", though Gonzales "didn't always want the anamorphics to make the audience feel this big jump, but I wanted these subtle differences like the background bokeh to be a little different." The season's "memory work" sequences were filmed with anamorphic lenses, but were then cropped to a 16:9 aspect ratio. Gonzales and Hawley both "don't care too much for" steadicams, and instead relied on jib arms, dollies, and 30-foot technocranes, both on set and location. The production also made extensive use of a Ronin camera stabilizer, allowing the camera to be moved around by camera men and transitioned between hand use and cranes without endangering the camera operators.

"It's a hard show to make on a TV schedule. There are a lot of elements, not just CG ... you're not just setting up a camera with two people talking. We're trying to tell the story with the camera and the visuals. I trained a lot of the crew on Fargo, so we're ambitious."

—Hawley on his approach to Legion's visual storytelling.

An unusually large amount of in-camera effects were used for the pilot in place of computer generated imagery, including "upside-down day"; shots of Haller using his abilities, where multiple takes of debris were filmed in controlled camera movements and then overlaid on shots of Stevens acting on his own; a montage that appears as a single camera movement, pulling "back in slow motion as we see David Haller's childhood progress"; and a one-shot action sequence—actually filmed in two shots that were later connected with visual effects—that saw the camera mounted on a cable and run down a hill side. Hawley admitted that it would be a challenge for the series' other directors to maintain this quality of visuals with much less time to film each episode: Hawley had 21 days to film the pilot, but the subsequent episodes were only scheduled 8 days of filming each. Some of these shoots ultimately had to be extended to 10 or 11 days filming to meet Hawley's vision, which he said were "not good calls to have but what are you going to do? It's a huge show." Keller felt that each episode in the season was noticeably different from the others, calling the series a uniquely "director-driven show. It's almost like the episode prior doesn't set you up for how the next episode is going to go."

Hawley noted that many US television series are filmed in Vancouver, and it "offers an amazing array of looks and feels and, obviously, a great crew base and everything." Sets for the series were constructed in a former supermarket warehouse in Burnaby, including a "23,000-square-foot set" for the interior of Clockworks Mental Hospital. Wylie called this the most complicated set, and felt "trying to make a hospital feel fun is a perfect challenge." The most difficult set for Wylie to create was the ice room inhabited by Oliver Bird in the astral plane, which he had to create in seven days. Wylie initially looked to have the set built by "those people who make giant sheets of ice for ice sculptures and stuff", before eventually building the set out of visqueen. However, this did not work, and was a "gigantic disappointment". Wylie had the set rebuilt within a week, with the second version using acrylic molded to look like thick sheets of ice. Another notable set featured a giant volume knob which Haller turns to "control the volume of the voices he hears in his head". This was compared to the effects of films like Honey, I Shrunk the Kids and The Incredible Shrinking Man, and described by Gonzales as "classic Noah Hawley". The sequence was filmed at the end of production on the season, and added to the second episode. All of Wylie's sets were built with "external lighting features" that could be controlled from a board, allowing the cinematographers to be flexible with lighting "given that the reality of a location can change drastically depending on our main character's perceptions and actions."

Music
Composer Jeff Russo felt that "the important part is allowing the humanity of these characters to really shine through", and in addition to an orchestra he used "a bunch of old synthesizers" and "a lot of interesting sound design" to represent the "otherworldly" elements of the series. Russo specifically found a Synthi AKS synthesizer for the show, as that instrument was used during the making of Pink Floyd's The Dark Side of the Moon, one of Hawley's favorite albums and what Russo described as "the sound of schizophrenia, the sound of mental illness in the '70s. So why not use that as the touchstone for what the sound of this score might be?" Russo experimented with the instrument, and began "recording and writing melodies around its unusual sounds."

With the season's premiere, Russo reiterated that the "through-line" of the series is the relationship between Haller and Barrett, and said that a love story "lends itself to musical moments. It allows it to underscore the character." To support the series' unreliable narrative, Russo tried to write music that would push the audience "off balance", which included "a lot of dissonance, and a lot of key changes that are subtle so you don't really recognize that it's a key change. I go from playing with a synthesizer, and then I morph that into playing the same piece of music with the orchestra, but in an adjusted key." Russo also looked to a variety of instruments and sounds for the show, such as orchestral and quartet effects that he called "left of center"; violin bows on bed springs and other metal objects; a solo harpsichord for the finale's opening sequence; and an electronic version of Maurice Ravel's "Boléro" for "Chapter 7" that was merged with a classical recording of the piece to create what Russo referred to as "Fauxlero".

A soundtrack album for the season featuring Russo's score was released digitally on February 24, 2017, on Amazon.com. A CD release followed on March 24, from Lakeshore Records, with a vinyl release also planned for the album. All music by Jeff Russo:

Legion (Original Television Series Soundtrack)
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Young David"	5:05
2.	"David in Clockworks"	0:46
3.	"174 Hours"	8:47
4.	"Seeing Things Hearing Things"	4:52
5.	"Run"	0:50
6.	"David"	6:31
7.	"The Shift and Cascade"	4:51
8.	"The Caper 2"	3:28
9.	"Legion Main Title"	1:27
10.	"87 Days"	8:33
11.	"Open"	3:10
12.	"Almost Legion"	4:10
13.	"Levitate"	2:29
14.	"Clockworks"	0:56
15.	"Chaos and Madness"	2:34
16.	"David and Syd"	3:11
17.	"Choir and Crickets"	2:20
18.	"Tea and Memory"	1:59
19.	"David Redux"	3:53
20.	"Darkness" (full suite)	5:00
A second album for the season was released by Lakeshore Records on June 9, featuring more of Russo's score. The release also included Russo's "Fauxlero" version of "Boléro", and a cover of "Rainbow Connection" from The Muppet Movie performed by Stevens on a banjo. All music by Jeff Russo, except where noted:

Legion, Volume 2 (Original Television Series Soundtrack)
No.	Title	Artist	Length
1.	"Caper 1"		2:35
2.	"Chasing David"		1:32
3.	"First Entry into Clockworks"		1:03
4.	"Harpsichord with Undercurrent"		6:52
5.	"Main Title Music Box"		1:09
6.	"Springs"		3:09
7.	"The Cube"		2:58
8.	"The Walk"		0:54
9.	"Fauxlero (Bolero De Revel)"	feat. Paco Rodrigo	6:44
10.	"Rainbow Connection"	Dan Stevens	1:29
Russo was not involved in the selection of the sourced songs used throughout the show, with Hawley already knowing the songs he wanted to use and working with music supervisor Maggie Phillips to get the license for them. With the influence of Pink Floyd's music on both Hawley and Russo, Hawley wanted to use their music in the season's finale, as Phillips noted it "never quite fit in the other episodes". He chose the songs "Breathe" and "On the Run", as "they flow into each other on the record. There's no pause in between those songs. So there was no way to go with just one song." This posed an issue with the series' budget that became the hardest licensing struggle for the series. Phillips described "an extremely difficult negotiation process, but we were working with some great people that recognized what we were doing was interesting. We ended up getting a price that we were able to persuade FX was worth it. But, it took months." The songs were confirmed on the day of the final sound mix for the show. In case the songs could not have been secured, Hawley asked Phillips to choose an alternative from the works of The Flaming Lips. Phillips said she was "not a huge fan of Flaming Lips, but I listened to every single song they've ever done". They ultimately decided that none of the songs would work for the sequence, so Russo composed original music to replace the Pink Floyd songs if necessary.

Lakeshore Records also maintains a digital playlist on music streaming service Spotify that, in addition to Russo's original music, collects several of the preexisting songs heard throughout the season. These additional songs include:

Legion Expanded Playlist – Music From the TV Series
No.	Title	Artist	Length
1.	"Masala Fair"	The Scene	2:43
2.	"Never My Love"	The Association	3:13
3.	"Happy Jack"	The Who	2:12
4.	"She's a Rainbow"	The Rolling Stones	4:11
5.	"Up the Beach"	Jane's Addiction	3:01
6.	"Pauvre Lola"	Serge Gainsbourg	2:31
7.	"Hyperactive!"	Thomas Dolby	4:13
8.	"Undiscovered First"	Feist	4:58
9.	"Don't Say Goodbye"	Johnny Woodson	2:17
10.	"Complexity"	Stewart Winter & Joe Saba	1:29
11.	"Road to Nowhere"	Talking Heads	4:27
12.	"Monkey"	Robert Plant	4:57
13.	"Metamorphosis"	Sonny Simmons	11:51
14.	"The Daily Mail"	Radiohead	3:37
15.	"Feeling Good"	Nina Simone and Bassnectar	3:46
16.	"Boléro"	Maurice Ravel	15:59
17.	"Art of Fear"	The Grassy Knoll	2:59
18.	"Children of the Revolution"	T. Rex	2:30
Visual effects
Hawley also brought his visual effects supervisor John Ross from Fargo. Ross coordinated multiple visual effects vendors for Legion, which he described as "a bit of a crapshoot" because artists were often not able to work on the same shot week-to-week. He noted that though "hundreds of thousands of dollars" was spent on major visual effect sequences for the show, "we don't dwell on that aspect. There's a jeep that gets slammed down [in the pilot], which the characters hide behind before it gets flung back into the building, but we pan off it, just throwing it away, because the destruction isn't the point of the scene." He compared this mindset to M. Night Shyamalan's approach to superpowers in Unbreakable. When realizing characters' special abilities, Ross said it "comes down to tying this fantastic beam coming out to somebody's hand, and showing how it lights up a face and distorts the air as it travels across frame. We want it to look as much like a live interactive element as we can imagine it to be."

Ross was impressed with the in-camera effects achieved for the series, but he would always propose visual effect alternatives to these on set because "you have to embrace what VFX can do for you. The cost of spending half a day on a special scene has got to be worth it, or else you can just shoot a plate and do the rest in post and save yourself all that production time". Ross photographed all the series' sets as reference footage to work from in case a visual effect shot was ultimately required, explaining, "Sometimes while looking at the assembly I'll realize we need another shot but there isn't any coverage that works. [The reference stills give] us a starting point for building our new shots. And whether they are all-CG or just elements, we are always dealing with Noah's aesthetic of making it look as real as possible."

Shared universe connections
In August 2016, Singer said that Legion had been designed to fit into the X-Men universe, but also to stand alone, so "you wouldn't have to label" the relationship between the series and the films. Hawley explained that because the series is depicting the title character's "subjective reality", it would not have to address any connections to the films straight away, noting that his series Fargo, which is connected to the 1996 film of the same name, at first "had to stand on its own feet" before exploring those connections more; "We have to earn the right to be part of this universe. My hope is we create something so strong that the people in the movie studio call and say they would be foolish enough not to connect these things." He did state that "you can't tell this story without" acknowledging that Legion is the son of Charles Xavier, who appears in the films. This acknowledgement comes in "Chapter 7", with the appearance of Xavier's signature wheelchair in one of Haller's memories. Hawley explained that Haller would look to learn more of his father in future seasons, with Xavier potentially making a physical appearance in the series at that point.

Release
Broadcast
Legion's first season premiered on FX on February 8, 2017, and concluded after eight episodes on March 29. In January 2016, Landgraf had said that he anticipated the series "would go on air" later that year, but that May, FX announced that the series would actually debut in early 2017. The next month, Marvel announced that Fox channels in over 125 countries had picked up their respective airing rights for the series, and that it would be aired using a "day-and-date" delivery system so that viewers around the world get the series on the same day. Fox Networks Group's sales division would also handle distribution of the series to third parties.

Marketing
At San Diego Comic-Con 2016, Marvel's Chief Creative Officer Joe Quesada debuted the first trailer for Legion at his "Cup O'Joe" panel. Response to the trailer was positive, particularly its unique tone and visuals. Jacob Kastrenakes of The Verge described the trailer as eclectic, while Daniel Kreps of Rolling Stone called it manic. Kelly West at CinemaBlend called the trailer "all kinds of weird... in a good way", and positively compared it to a mix of Fight Club, Mr. Robot, and The Matrix. At New York Comic-Con later that year, the series held its own panel. Hawley, Loeb, Donner, and the series' main cast members were present to promote the series and screen the first half of the pilot episode. In response to the footage, Deadline Hollywood's Dominic Patten said "we know three things for sure about Legion, it looks great, has top notch pacing and a killer choice of music." Nick Romano, recapping the panel for Entertainment Weekly, called the footage "just as chaotic as the mind of David Haller" and "almost Kubrickian in nature". "Based on what was screened," Romano added, "Legion already seems to have an erratic, hallucinatory tone and style that we've never seen before from a superhero TV series."

Michael Murphy's Suspension of Disbelief sculpture, displayed at the Legion Where?House art exhibit, forms the word "Legion" from hundreds of colorful objects hung from the ceiling
Michael Murphy's Suspension of Disbelief sculpture, displayed at the Legion Where?House art exhibit, forms the word "Legion" from hundreds of colorful objects hung from the ceiling
The series premiered at a red carpet event on January 26, 2017, in West Hollywood's Pacific Design Center. It was received enthusiastically by the audience, including Legion creator Bill Sienkiewicz. This was followed by an "immersive art exhibit" named Legion Where?House. Running for three days from the premiere in a Williamsburg warehouse, the free-to-the-public exhibit featured artwork from Michael Murphy, Clemens Behr, Kumi Yamashita, and David Flores that looked to "challenge audiences' minds": Murphy's sculpture, Suspension of Disbelief, features "hundreds of colorful utilitarian objects" hung from the ceiling that, when looked at from a specific spot, form the word "Legion"; Behr's installation, Doors, is "the corridor of a hospital that's been blown apart", allowing visitors to walk "between fragments of rooms and doorways strewn with mirror fragments"; Yamashita created Lovers, silhouettes of David Haller and Syd Barrett that are separated, "preventing the figures from clasping hands", which "greets visitors at the show's entrance"; and Flores' mural Legion, "being used as the key art for the show, depicts a fiery explosion emanating from David's mind." Limited edition posters inspired by this artwork were made available at 56 comic book stores across the U.S. The exhibit also included a multimedia installation inspired by the series.

Additionally, five augmented reality (AR) murals were displayed as promotion for the series, one each in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Chicago, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. Visitors to these sites could use the Blippar AR app to make the artwork "come to life", displaying "the power of David Haller's mind". In London, the Century Club hosted a cocktail bar on February 8 named The Mutant Lounge. Taking place over two, two-hour sessions, the event was staffed by "mutants with superpowers", decorated to "recreate the world depicted in the series", and served themed cocktails and canapes. Visitors could watch the series' premiere before its debut in the UK, and were "treated to a number of surprises throughout the evening, with the aim of demonstrating that not everything is as it seems."

Home media
In September 2017, the complete season was made available on the FX+ online streaming service, accessible to customers of Cox On Demand, Xfinity On Demand, and the FX Now app. On October 2, the season was released on DVD and Blu-ray for Region 2, including all eight episodes, deleted scenes, and making-of featurettes. It received a similar release for Region 4 on November 22. The season was released in Region 1 on DVD and Blu-ray on March 27, 2018.

Reception
Ratings
Table info: No., Title, Air date, Rating(18–49), Viewers(... ▼
NO.	TITLE	AIR DATE	RATING
(18–49)	VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	DVR
(18–49)	DVR VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)	TOTAL
(18–49)	TOTAL VIEWERS
(MILLIONS)
1	"Chapter 1"	February 8, 2017	0.7	1.622	0.9	1.97	1.6	3.59
2	"Chapter 2"	February 15, 2017	0.5	1.133	0.8	1.78	1.3	2.91
3	"Chapter 3"	February 22, 2017	0.5	1.043	0.7	1.45	1.2	2.49
4	"Chapter 4"	March 1, 2017	0.4	0.750	—	—	—	—
5	"Chapter 5"	March 8, 2017	0.4	0.795	0.7	1.40	1.1	2.19
6	"Chapter 6"	March 15, 2017	0.3	0.732	0.7	1.38	1.0	2.11
7	"Chapter 7"	March 22, 2017	0.4	0.716	0.6	1.33	1.0	2.04
8	"Chapter 8"	March 29, 2017	0.4	0.812	0.6	1.20	1.0	2.01
Close ▲
The premiere's initial ratings were described as "OK, not great", in line with other cable series debuts, but lower than other high-profile FX debuts such as American Crime Story and Hawley's own Fargo. With the increase in viewership from encore showings and delayed viewing, the season was described as being "off to a good start". It ultimately surpassed the total viewership for the higher-profile premiere of FX's Taboo. By the end of the season, the show's ratings were described as "steady" and "fairly solid".

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 90% approval rating with an average rating of 8.37/10 based on 69 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Bold, intelligent, and visually arresting, Legion is a masterfully surreal and brilliantly daring departure from traditional superhero conceits." The average rating for individual episodes is 89%. Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 82 out of 100 based on 40 critics, indicating what the website considers to be "universal acclaim".

Table info: ... ▼
Legion(season 1): Critical reception by episode
Season 1 (2017):Percentage of positive critics' reviews tracked by the website Rotten Tomatoes

Close ▲
James Poniewozik of The New York Times called the series "sharply written, but its visual panache is the big surprise", praising the "groovy, 1960s-70s retro-futuristic look" and soundtrack. He concluded, "You will not always know what's real in Legion, but the thrills are 100 percent genuine." Writing for The Guardian, Emily Zemler said that Hawley's representation of Haller's perspective on reality was "the strength of Legion ... It's disjointed on purpose, and there's something deeply satisfying in the edge that gives the viewer. It's not a comfortable watch, but it doesn't need to be." Zemler did warn that the series may be disorienting for viewers with no context or knowledge of the character's comic origins.

David Bianco, reviewing the series' early episodes for USA Today, found the show's villains to be its weakest link, instead praising Stevens, Keller, and Smart. He said it "may initially seem confusing and frustrating [but] if any show deserves your patience, it's Legion. Rewards await." In his review on RogerEbert.com, Brian Tallerico praised the series for its focus on character, especially by having none of its characters "defined by their powers or their relation to a villain". He felt that the performances of Stevens and Keller were especially strong, but did think that the series took itself too seriously at times, lacking some of the humor usually found in the works of Hawley and Marvel. David Wiegand for the San Francisco Chronicle called Legion the best series of the new year, and praised the "resolutely novelistic" approach from Hawley. He found it "facile" to call Legion "a comic book show for people who don't like comic book shows. [It has] a far more complex thematic and psychological structure than most comic book shows." He praised the cast, especially Stevens, who he said "simply does the best work of his career".

Dan Stevens received praise for his performance as the title character
Dan Stevens received praise for his performance as the title character
IndieWire's Ben Travers praised Legion as "the most intricate, intimate superhero story to date", highlighting its focus on "an emotional journey for our leading lad", the central love story that turns the show "from a 12 Monkeys mind-fuck to a Romeo & Juliet romance at the drop of a hat", and its cast. At Variety, Maureen Ryan stated that Stevens' performance "is the glue that keeps Legion from flying apart", and the relationship between Haller and Barrett provides "moments of solace in a viewing experience that can otherwise be exceptionally intense." After the first three episodes, Ryan said that "the challenge of Legion will be to make David's quest for wholeness more than the sum of its flashy and often captivating parts. But the humane core of the drama offers a reason to hope for the best." Tim Goodman of The Hollywood Reporter said, "It might seem weird to have a Marvel show on FX, or to have it star that upper-crust Brit from Downton Abbey, filtered through the creator of Fargo, but somehow it all works." He praised Stevens performance, and Hawley's "optical hijinks" even after the first episode, where the story starts to become more clear.

Writing for Slate, Sam Adams stated that Hawley's intention to deconstruct the superhero genre "doesn't seem like an accurate description of what the series is doing, or even trying to do", calling the series "a well-appointed show: It's handsomely shot, and smartly acted, and ingeniously constructed enough to suggest there's something mind-blowing lurking at its center ... [but] it starts to feel like a show with a Rubik's cube where its heart should be." David Sims at The Atlantic called Legion "the latest, and most indulgent, entrant" in a trend of "shows that rely far less on plot than on mood, that are crammed with stunning visuals and frustrating, circular dialogue." Sims praised the series' style and Stevens' performance, but felt that "it tries so hard to dazzle that it forgets to tell a meaningful story." The Washington Post's Hank Stuever also questioned the need for another series where "viewers find themselves trapped in the center of a tortured mind". Stuever had mixed feelings for the show overall, calling it "beautifully made" but asking, "Must it always be the viewer's job to pick up the pieces?"

Accolades
Legion was named on multiple best/top television series lists for 2017, including by io9 (2nd), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for The Hollywood Reporter (9th), and unranked by the Los Angeles Times, and the San Francisco Chronicle. It was also named on multiple lists for best/top new series of 2017, including by Mashable (6th), and Deadline Hollywood (8th, tied with Big Little Lies), as well as unranked by Vanity Fair. Additionally, in mid-2017, Legion was named one of the best television series of the year so far by Nerdist, and one of the best new series of the year so far by IndieWire (7th) and unranked by CinemaBlend. Collider ranked it as the best superhero series of the year.

Table info: Year, Award, Category, Recipient, Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	RECIPIENT	RESULT	REF.
2017	TVLine's Performer of the Week	Performance in "Chapter 6"	Aubrey Plaza	Won
Golden Trailer Awards	Best Sound Editing (TV Spot/Trailer/Teaser for a series)	Legion	Won
Saturn Awards	Best Superhero Adaptation Television Series	Legion	Nominated
Camerimage International Film Festival	First Look – TV Pilots Competition	Dana Gonzales for "Chapter 1"	Nominated
IGN's Best of 2017 Awards	TV series of the year	Legion	Nominated
Best New Series	Legion	People's Choice
Best Action Series	Legion	Tied Runner-Up
Best Dramatic TV Performance	Dan Stevens	Nominated
2018	Satellite Awards	Best Television Series – Genre	Legion	Nominated
ASC Awards	Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography in Regular Series for Commercial Television	Dana Gonzales for "Chapter 1"	Nominated
Visual Effects Society Awards	Outstanding Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	John Ross, Eddie Bonin, Sebastian Bergeron, Lionel Lim, Paul Benjamin for "Chapter 1"	Nominated
Empire Awards	Best TV Actor	Dan Stevens	Nominated
GLAAD Media Awards	Outstanding Individual Episode (in a series without a regular LGBTQ character)	"Chapter 8"	Nominated
Peabody Awards	Entertainment	Legion	Nominated
Close ▲
References
External links
Legion
Legion (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
9	1	"Chapter 9"	Tim Mielants	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April3,2018	XLN02001	0.669
A year after Amahl Farouk / Shadow King escaped in the body of Oliver Bird and David Haller was kidnapped by a strange orb, the mutants of Summerland and the government agency Division 3 race against Farouk to find his original body, which would allow him to unleash his full power. Farouk is also infecting people with a psychic "virus", the Catalyst, that paralyses their bodies but causes their teeth to continuously chatter. David appears in a nightclub, claiming that only hours have passed since his kidnapping, while also secretly hearing alternate versions of himself communicating with him. He tries to find Farouk telepathically, using an amplification chamber created by scientist Cary Loudermilk to increase the range of his abilities, but instead relives a memory from the nightclub of a strange monk and a dance battle with Oliver and Lenny Busker. David gives his girlfriend Syd Barrett a compass that will always lead her to him, and promises not to keep secrets from her, but does not tell her of the future version of her that sent the orb and told him to help Farouk find his body. That night, David's mind meets with Oliver and Lenny in the "nightclub".

The Narrator explains how ideas lead to madness and delusions, and recounts the story of Zhuang Zhou. He compares ideas to eggs—a rational idea hatches as a healthy chick and a delusion is a dark creature that feeds on it—and gives the example of Albert A, a man who cannot ignore the idea that his own leg is not his, to the point that he saws it off.
10	2	"Chapter 10"	Ana Lily Amirpour	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April10,2018	XLN02002	0.439
David agrees to work with Farouk, and causes a distraction by taking many of the others to the desert while Farouk takes Oliver's body to Division 3, where he believes the last surviving monk of the Migo Order may be hiding—the Migo monks had played a role in hiding Farouk's body. Farouk does not find the monk, but does kill several soldiers and traps Cary Loudermilk within the body of Kerry, the girl who is usually within his body. Members of Division 3 begin to suspect David is working against them. He regrets helping Farouk now that it caused loss of life, and convinces the Loudermilks to further enhance his abilities to try and contact Syd in the future. There she explains that David will kill Farouk within a week, but then a plague will kill all the humans on the planet and Farouk could have helped them stop it. Returning to the present, David confronts Farouk who agrees to no longer kill people in exchange for David's continued cooperation. David tells Syd what he is doing, and she agrees that they should do as her future self says.

The Narrator discusses umwelt, one creature's perception of the world. He explains that humans are the only creatures that apply meaning to the world, and so are the only creatures who go mad. For instance, a boy taught that the color red is called "green" and that "green means go" may attempt to cross a road when shown a red light.
11	3	"Chapter 11"	Sarah Adina Smith	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April17,2018	XLN02003	0.380
David and those at Division 3 realize that the Monk was in a room with victims of the Catalyst, and has now escaped. David confers with Farouk, who explains that the Monk is the actual source of the Catalyst, as an asymptomatic carrier. Meanwhile, the Monk has infected everyone else except for Cary. David and Cary enter the minds of Ptonomy Wallace and Melanie Bird, finding them trapped in mazes based on their deepest desires; David is able to free them. He is captured by the Monk, who shares memories of Farouk's body being buried beneath the Migo monastery and slowly driving the other Monks mad, until they committed suicide or were infected by the Catalyst. The Monk incapacitates Admiral Fukyama, Division 3's leader, and reveals that he is searching for a weapon to defeat Farouk. Melanie believes this is David, who the Monk almost reveals has been working with Farouk. David teleports the Monk to the roof of the building and attempts to explain himself, but the Monk jumps from the building, choosing suicide over helping Farouk.

The Narrator introduces the nocebo effect, calling it a conversion disorder where the body responds to the idea of an illness as a real illness. He further describes how this issue can be contagious, linking it to mass hysteria and citing the dancing plague of 1518, the Tanganyika laughter epidemic, and the Hindu milk miracle as examples.
12	4	"Chapter 12"	Ellen Kuras	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	April24,2018	XLN02004	0.434
The Catalyst disappears, and David enters Syd's mind. Finding another maze, David explores Syd's mind, following her life's story from birth through adolescence: even as a baby Syd did not like to be touched, and she was bullied for this growing up, leading to self-harm. She first gained her abilities as a teenager when a boy insisted on kissing her, and used this first experience of body-swapping to attack bullies. Syd eventually took her mother's body and had sex with her partner, but accidentally changed back to her teenage body before they finished, leading to his arrest. After living through Syd's life David explained to her what he believed was her one true desire, but each time she would say that he is wrong and make him start watching again. He eventually realizes that this is not a Catalyst maze, and that Syd is testing him herself. When David is unable to guess her meaning, Syd explains that she believes love will not save them but pain can give them the strength to fight for love, and allows them to wake up.
13	5	"Chapter 13"	Tim Mielants	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	May1,2018	XLN02005	0.456
After pleading with Farouk to release her, Lenny appears at Division 3 with an apparent physical body. She surrenders herself, and is interrogated about whether she is still being controlled by Farouk (she denies this) and how she came to have a body again after hers died (she refuses to explain this). Ptonomy attempts to look through her memories but finds them disturbed, and is forced to face a strange delusion within his own mind involving Admiral Fukyama. When David looks into Lenny's mind, he realizes that she has indeed been sent by Farouk, but manages to block out that influence so the two can talk openly. Lenny states that she is unsure how she can have a body again, but together they piece together the memories in her head: Farouk directed Oliver to dig up Lenny's original body and take a tissue sample from it, and then they found David's sister Amy where Division 3 was hiding her. Oliver used a device that he stole from Division 3 to infuse Amy's body with Lenny's DNA. Farouk then planted Lenny's consciousness in this body.

The Narrator discusses examples of the phenomenon pareidolia, and highlights the power of human perception and pattern recognition—in a further example, he contrasts an optimist and a pessimist responding to a situation. He states that it is this that causes humans to conflate coincidence with conspiracy.
14	6	"Chapter 14"	John Cameron	Noah Hawley	May8,2018	XLN02007	0.353
David's mind explores possible lives where he made different choices. In one life he is homeless and attacked by a group of men. This unlocks David's abilities and he is hunted by Division 3. Kerry Loudermilk kills him. In another life, David takes medication to suppress his abilities and lives a docile life with Amy, until a vision of the Devil with Yellow Eyes and a confrontation with police officers leads to David being shot and killed. One life sees David working for a businesswoman until he uses his mind reading ability to gain her favor. This version remains under the control of Farouk and eventually becomes the richest man in the world, with the businesswoman now working for him. In other lives a drug-addicted version of David discusses the multiverse theory, an elderly David is cared for by Amy, and a happy David lives a pleasant suburban life. Remembering when Amy first took him to Clockworks Psychiatric Hospital and accepted that they had to live with the life they got, David returns to his life and accepts the version of events that led to her death.
15	7	"Chapter 15"	Charlie McDowell	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	May15,2018	XLN02006	0.451
David vows revenge against Farouk for Amy's death. Trying to understand why David had helped him in the first place, Farouk sends his mind forward in time to meet with the future Syd and ask her why she had tasked David with helping him. She explains that David will cause her apocalyptic future, and she hopes that Farouk can help prevent this from happening. David also visits future Syd, claiming that he is now unable to help Farouk due to Amy's death despite what future Syd says. Ptonomy's mind continues to be haunted by the delusion, seemingly planted by Farouk as a distraction, that Admiral Fukyama is secretly working against them. Ptonomy plants this fear in the minds of Syd, the Loudermilks, and agent Clark Debussy, and they attack the android Vermillion who serve Fukyama. Clark almost murders the Admiral before David stops them and removes the delusions from their minds. This process is fatal for Ptonomy, but the Vermillion manage to save his mind by adding it to the "mainframe" that makes up Fukyama's mind.

The Narrator talks about moral panic in relation to the events of the episode, and recaps all of his lessons so far by noting how his discussions of delusions and mass hysteria play out onscreen. The delusions that take hold of the character's minds in the episode are depicted as the dark creature the Narrator introduced in the first episode of the season.
16	8	"Chapter 16"	Jeremy Webb	Noah Hawley & Jordan Crair	May22,2018	XLN02008	0.409
Future Syd told Farouk how he could find the driver who took his body to the Mi-Go monks. The now-elderly driver agrees to tell Farouk where his body is in exchange for him placing her mind in a never-ending dream. In the Mainframe, Ptonomy sees how Fukyama was recruited as a teenager to become this machine so that Division 3 could hide secrets in his "mind" from mutant telepaths. He also finds that the monk uploaded some of his memories to the Mainframe, including the location of Farouk's body; it is in Le Désolé, a constantly changing desert. Ptonomy is able to get this information to David through the Vermillion. Putting a plan in motion, David goes to the desert to start looking, with Farouk only a day ahead of him. Syd follows David, and the pair end up trapped by a storm in a tent with the apparent skeletons of their future selves. As part of his plan, David remotely releases Lenny from her cell and telepathically tells Clark to bring the "Choke" to the desert. However, Melanie attacks and restrains Clark first.

The Narrator discusses narcissism and the "most alarming delusion of all": believing other people do not matter. He states that this arises from people seeing a "shadow" of the world rather than the real thing, such as by interacting with others through technology, and are unable to compare themselves to the perceived shadow people.
17	9	"Chapter 17"	Noah Hawley	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	May29,2018	XLN02011	0.362
Two weeks earlier, when David first returned to Division 3, Melanie was falling into despair at the loss of Oliver again after he was trapped in the astral plane for 21 years. She became addicted to drugs, hallucinating a minotaur. Oliver began to visit Melanie in her mind, reminding her of their time together and encouraging her to forget about the animosity she feels towards him for always leaving. She starts helping Oliver, desperate to be with him again, first warning him of David's plan and then attacking Clark to try to stop it. The Loudermilks receive a message from David, instructing them to steal a weapon from Division 3 and deliver it to the parking lot at the Blue Octopus. Meanwhile, Lenny returns to her former life after years in a mental hospital or enslaved by Farouk. She turns back to drugs and partying, but is haunted by Amy who convinces her to help David by following his plan. Lenny retrieves the weapon from the Blue Octopus, and is teleported to the desert. With a tracking device on the weapon, the Loudermilks follow.
18	10	"Chapter 18"	Dana Gonzales	Noah Hawley & Nathaniel Halpern	June5,2018	XLN02009	0.467
Syd wakes up after a night in the tent to find a giant plughole in the desert ground. She is dragged down the "drain" to find Melanie. David wakes up and finds the Mi-Go monastery. Inside, he finds Oliver and tortures him, but Farouk refuses to reveal where Syd is. Melanie and Syd watch this from underground, where the latter maintains that David is a good person. Melanie attempts to convince her otherwise, telling Syd about secrets David kept such as the intimate relationship he had with Future Syd as well as the fact that David will be the one to end the world. Melanie knows this because she is being controlled by Farouk, who abandons Oliver's body during the torture. The Loudermilks arrive and go down the drain, while Lenny waits above ground. Farouk is reunited with his body, and sends the minotaur to kill the others. He finds Clark and Division 3, arriving later than David had wanted to, and throws away the Choke—a tuning fork that can dampen mutant powers. Farouk then basks in his regained power.
19	11	"Chapter 19"	Keith Gordon	Noah Hawley	June12,2018	XLN02010	0.315
David and Farouk mentally battle one another until Lenny finds and activates the Choke. David physically overpowers Farouk, before Syd arrives having escaped from underground when Kerry killed the minotaur. Syd explains what she has learned about David and shoots him, but the bullet is stopped by one from Lenny. David alters Syd's memories so she still loves him. Though Syd is confused, David convinces her that there is nothing wrong and the pair have sex. This is witnessed by Fukyama. Division 3 arrests Farouk and Lenny, while an imprisoned Farouk grimly admonishes David over his actions and his true nature before secretly restoring Syd's memories. Cary uses data from the desert to virtually reconstruct the events, and sees David changing Syd's mind. When David arrives for Farouk's trial, he is trapped by the others. David insists that he is good and should not be punished for potential future actions, but they make him face the fact that he sexually assaulted Syd. Hallucinating his alters in the room, David suddenly becomes fed up with the actions of his former allies, before he destroys and escapes the trap and teleports away with Lenny. Three years later, Melanie and Oliver are living happily together in the astral plane.

The educational segment from the first episode of the season is revisited, with the Narrator's story about the delusion hatching from the egg playing in David's mind after Syd shoots at him. An alternate version of David suggests that the idea of David being a good person who deserves love is itself a delusion.
Close ▲
Legion (season 3)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	U.S. viewers
(millions)
20	1	"Chapter 20"	Andrew Stanton	Noah Hawley and Nathaniel Halpern	June24,2019	XLN03001	0.377
A young mutant with the nickname Switch has the ability to create doorways that can allow for time travel. Unsatisfied with her life, she discovers clues that eventually lead her to a cult run by David and Lenny. David explains to Switch that he has been searching for a time traveler. Switch's initial meeting with David is interrupted by the invasion of Division 3 agents who murder most of the cultists and Syd who delivers a killing shot to David. Switch time travels back to try to prevent the massacre but despite things going slightly differently, David is once more killed by Syd. Switch again time travels but is intercepted by Farouk. After a failed attempt to recruit her, Farouk returns to his allies in the flying headquarters of Division 3. After Switch mentions that Syd has killed David out of two failed timelines, Farouk attempts to talk Syd out of raiding David's cult, but is unsuccessful. In a third timeline, Division 3 (led by the Mainframe inhabited in a robot that resembles Ptonomy) conduct the raid on David's compound but instead discover that the entire building has been removed due to the preemptive intervention of Switch and David.
21	2	"Chapter 21"	Carlos López Estrada	Noah Hawley and Olivia Dufault & Kate Thulin	July1,2019	XLN03002	0.381
Now fully believing Switch's time travel powers, David attempts to travel through one of her doorways but finds that he is incapable of entering. Via astral projection, David tells Syd that he plans to go back in time and fix everything; Syd, who still does not forgive him for taking advantage of her, in turn tells him that his time-traveling intention is just a smokescreen, and his character is the reason why the world ends. Enraged by this, his anger poisons his cult members from blissful happiness to a furious state. David and Lenny realize that they must supercharge Switch to allow her greater abilities. Eventually, Lenny manages to capture Cary. David combines drugs and mind control to trick Cary into willingly experimenting on Switch to make her powerful enough to allow David to time travel.
22	3	"Chapter 22"	John Cameron	Nathaniel Halpern	July8,2019	XLN03003	0.370
Thirty years in the past, Charles Xavier and Gabrielle Haller live in happiness with their newborn David. Charles was a war veteran who used his telepathy to survive and Gabrielle was a survivor of the Holocaust who was brought out of catatonia by Charles. Meeting in an asylum, the two fell in love. After building a prototype Cerebro to boost his telepathy powers, Charles discovers a powerful mutant named Farouk and sets off to Morocco to meet him. Left alone in the house, Gabrielle suffers from several strange delusions, some of which are brought on by the attempted time travel intervention of David and Switch. David is frustrated to discover that, despite attempts to prevent his infant self from possession, he is unable to influence the past or even manifest physically. Charles telephones Gabrielle in a panic to explain that meeting Farouk was a mistake and makes plans to immediately return home. Gabrielle's visions become increasingly nightmarish due to the now astral projection of Farouk's spirit as well as present day David's desperate attempts to prevent this. David finally manages to manifest as a ghost and attempts to warn Gabrielle, but at that moment Charles returns and telepathically expels David and Switch back to the present. Switch is physically and mentally drained from such extreme time travel, but David demands they travel back immediately. Back in the past, Charles comforts Gabrielle who seemingly reverted to a catatonic state, while both are oblivious to the fact that Farouk has successfully possessed baby David.
23	4	"Chapter 23"	Daniel Kwan	Olivia Dufault and Charles Yu	July15,2019	XLN03004	0.277
As a result of David and Switch's meddling in the past, time itself becomes unstable, resulting in time loops for both David's cult and Division 3 (as well as the viewer, with the broadcast briefly switching to an episode of The Shield). It also attracts time demons, creatures who feed on time and manifest when Switch travels too far back. The time demons attack David and he awakens in a concentration camp next to his mother, but it is an illusion made by the time demons. Others are also tortured by illusions, with Syd coming across a younger version of herself and Lenny being forced to witness the rapid birth, aging and death of her daughter. Cary breaks free from David's mind control, and he escapes David's facility with Switch. David eventually scares the time demons away, but is enraged by Switch's escape.
24	5	"Chapter 24"	Arkasha Stevenson	Olivia Dufault and Ben H. Winters	July22,2019	XLN03005	0.288
David hijacks a Division 3 bus and manipulates the memory of Daniel, Clark's husband, to learn that Switch is aboard the Division 3 airship. Lenny, distraught from her ordeal with the time demons, calls David out on his narcissistic and villainous acts, as well as her own, before she slits her own throat and dies by suicide in front of him. Meanwhile, Cary builds a hibernation chamber for Switch to hide her from David. Ptonomy suggests traveling to outer space to get out of David's teleportation range, and Division 3 agrees against the wishes of Farouk, who wants to face David directly. Farouk intentionally provokes David, who discovers their location. David and his cult make it to the airship, and he personally kills Clark by throwing him into space. David contacts Syd, who gives up Switch's location, and he vows to change the past and undo everything. Syd tricks him into allowing her to use her powers to make them swap bodies; however, David's other personalities, who refer to themselves as Legion, manage to overpower Syd as they bring David back to his body and wipe Syd's mind to prevent her from swapping bodies again. He retrieves Switch, who then traps Farouk in the 'space between time'. David and Switch once again travel to the past, with David stating he now has a new plan.
25	6	"Chapter 25"	John Cameron	Noah Hawley	July29,2019	XLN03006	0.332
Oliver finds Syd's lost mind in the astral plane, manifesting as a baby. He and Melanie decide to raise her, not realizing who she is. They also adopt Cynthia, a woman who is in the astral plane due to 'losing her innocence'. Cynthia is spirited away by Jerome, a sinister entity also known as The Wolf, who aims to corrupt those he finds in the astral plane. As the astral Syd ages, she has nightmares about what the real world Syd has experienced. Astral Syd encounters a now drug-addicted Cynthia, who unsuccessfully attempts to recruit her to The Wolf's control. Instead, Astral Syd vows to save Cynthia. She and Oliver kidnap Cynthia, only for The Wolf to track them down and Cynthia to willingly leave with him. Oliver and Melanie encourage a now full-grown Syd to return to the real world, and she awakens on the Division 3 airship. With the time door still open, Cary creates devices that allow himself, Syd, and Kerry to travel back in time to go after David, but only after Cary absorbs Kerry's wounds to restore her to full strength.
26	7	"Chapter 26"	Dana Gonzales	Noah Hawley and Olivia Dufault	August5,2019	XLN03007	0.288
Back in the past, Charles travels to Morocco to meet with Farouk after using Cerebro to find him; Farouk foresees his arrival and teaches Charles about the astral plane. Meanwhile, Syd, Cary, and Kerry encounter Gabrielle in the past, and Syd realizes she is David's mother. Syd refuses to kill baby David, convinced that if she stays in the past, she can help raise him to be a different person. Time, however, is destabilizing again, attracting the time demons. David travels back to Charles's location and teleports the two of them inside of David's mind. David reveals to Charles everything that has happened to this point in David's life. Warning Charles that the meeting with Farouk is a trap, David poses as a fellow soldier with the intention of killing Farouk; Charles is hesitant, until he discovers that Farouk's 'children' are little more than vessels containing Farouk's victims. The time demons arrive and wreak havoc, made worse by Switch having overexerted herself. The present-day Farouk escapes from the 'space between time' and travels back to join forces with his past-self.
27	8	"Chapter 27"	Noah Hawley and John Cameron	Noah Hawley and Olivia Dufault	August12,2019	XLN03008	0.365
With the time demons causing chaos, Cary and Kerry merge to fight them alongside Syd. Severely weakened, Switch surrenders herself to the time demons, but her father appears and elevates her to a higher level of existence, revealing both he and Switch have the ability to control the time demons (who merely function to guard the tributaries of time). Switch stops the time demons and saves Syd, Cary, Kerry, Gabrielle and baby David. David fights past Farouk using the many fractured personalities within his subconscious, but past Farouk overpowers them and traps David, mockingly accusing him of being a bad person. David escapes, using Gabrielle as inspiration. Charles and present Farouk travel to the astral plane, where present Farouk admits that he actually traveled back to help David. Charles prevents David from killing past Farouk, telling David he struck a deal with present Farouk to keep the peace. Present Farouk reveals the future to his defiant past self and David, both Charles and the Farouks form a truce. Switch reveals to Syd that David's actions, while saving the world, will also create new versions of David and Syd, and the old ones will disappear. Cary and an aged Kerry reunite, now separated from each other. Charles returns home and reconciles with Gabrielle. David and Syd speak for the final time, both expressing hope that their new selves will flourish, and they vanish as baby David looks on.
Close ▲
