https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloak_%26_Dagger_(TV_series)

Cloak & Dagger (TV series)
2018–2019 Marvel Television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Cloak and Dagger (characters)
D'Spayre
Famous in Love
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Cloak & Dagger (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Marvel's Cloak & Dagger, or simply Cloak & Dagger, is an American television series created by Joe Pokaski for Freeform, based on the Marvel Comics characters of the same name. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the other television series of the franchise and acknowledging the continuity of the franchise's films. The series was produced by ABC Signature Studios, Marvel Television, and Wandering Rocks Productions, with Pokaski serving as showrunner.

Quick facts: Cloak & Dagger, Genre, Created by, Based ... ▼
Cloak & Dagger
Cloak_%26_Dagger_%28TV_series%29_logo.jpg
Genre
Created by	Joe Pokaski
Based on
Starring
Composer	Mark Isham
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	2
No. of episodes	20
Production
Executive producers
Producers
Barbara D'Alessandro (1x01 only)
Jenny Klein
Production location	New Orleans
Cinematography
Tami Reiker (1x01 only)
Cliff Charles
Editors
Terilyn A. Shropshire
Ian S. Tan
William Yeh
Gena Bleier
Jon Koslowsky
Tucker Marolf
Running time	42–49 minutes
Production companies
Wandering Rocks Productions
ABC Signature Studios
Marvel Television
Original release
Network	Freeform
Release	June 7, 2018–
May 30, 2019
Related
Runaways
Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
Close ▲
The series stars Olivia Holt and Aubrey Joseph as Tandy Bowen / Dagger and Tyrone Johnson / Cloak, two teenagers with superpowers who form a partnership. A television series featuring the pair had begun development at ABC Family in July 2011. The channel, renamed Freeform, ordered Cloak & Dagger to series in April 2016, and Pokaski had joined as showrunner by that August. Holt and Joseph were cast in January 2017, with Gloria Reuben, Andrea Roth, J. D. Evermore, Miles Mussenden, Carl Lundstedt, Emma Lahana, and Jaime Zevallos also starring in the series. Filming for the series took place in New Orleans.

The first season aired from June 7 to August 2, 2018, and was met with positive reviews. Freeform renewed the series for a second season in July 2018, which premiered on April 4, 2019, and concluded on May 30, 2019. The series was canceled on October 24, 2019.

Premise
In New Orleans, Louisiana, teenagers Tandy Bowen and Tyrone Johnson come from different backgrounds and have acquired superpowers after a life-changing event that revolved around the collapse of the Roxxon Gulf Platform. As their friendship unfolds, they soon realize that their powers work better when they are together, they use these powers to try to fix some of the wrong in the world.

In the second season, Tandy and Tyrone work to solve the abductions of women run by Andre Deschaine while dealing with Brigid O'Reilly's vigilante half Mayhem.

Cast and characters
Main
Olivia Holt as Tandy Bowen / Dagger:
A teenager and street thief who is connected to Tyrone Johnson through a shared childhood tragedy, with the ability to emit light daggers. Showrunner Joe Pokaski felt Bowen in the series was "more cynical" than previous portrayals, and noted that when she touches people she can access their hopes and desires, saying, "There's something exciting about having a cynical character like Tandy who steals things and doesn't believe in the good of man, yet sees the best in them when she touches them". Rachel Ryals portrays a young Tandy.
Aubrey Joseph as Tyrone Johnson / Cloak:
A teenager, who is connected to Tandy Bowen through a shared childhood tragedy, with the ability to engulf others in darkness and transport them through the Darkforce Dimension. Johnson has the ability to witness people's fears, having been "living in a world of fear" since the death of his older brother Billy. Pokaski added, "There was something interesting in helping him to understand that everyone is afraid." Maceo Smedley III portrays a young Tyrone.
Gloria Reuben as Adina Johnson: Tyrone's mother who invests heavily in making sure her son has a good life
Andrea Roth as Melissa Bowen: Tandy's drug and alcohol-addicted yet optimistic mother
J. D. Evermore as James Connors: An intimidating scar-faced detective of the New Orleans Police Department's vice squad with a secret
Miles Mussenden as Otis Johnson: Tyrone's working class father who tries to provide for his family and is also an associate of the Wild Red Hawks. The character was originally announced as being named "Michael".
Carl Lundstedt as Liam Walsh: Tandy's partner in crime and boyfriend in the first season
Emma Lahana as Brigid O'Reilly / Mayhem:
A detective from Harlem with hardened New York sensibilities who believes no one is above the law, including other cops. In the second season, Lahana also portrays Mayhem, the sinister vigilante half of O'Reilly. Pokaski wanted to avoid the typical "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" type of story, and found it more interesting to have the personalities be separate entities that pursued different goals.
Jaime Zevallos as Francis Delgado: A school counselor and priest who is constantly seeking redemption and questions the life he has chosen
Recurring
Introduced in season 1
Wayne Péré as Peter Scarborough: The chief executive of Risk Management at Roxxon who is responsible for confiscating Nathan Bowen's work following his death.
Noëlle Renée Bercy as Evita Fusilier: A friend and love interest of Tyrone's. Bercy, who is from New Orleans, was familiar with the voodoo culture of the city, and was able to speak to people regarding it for her part.
Dalon J. Holland as Duane Porter: A friend of Billy Johnson and acquaintance of Tyrone.
Andy Dylan as Nathan Bowen: Tandy's father and former employee at Roxxon Gulf, who was killed in a car accident the night when the Roxxon Gulf platform collapsed.
Marqus Clae as Billy Johnson: Tyrone's older brother who is shot and killed by Connors the night when the Roxxon Gulf Platform collapsed. Carsyn Taylor portrays a young Billy.
Lane Miller as Kenneth Fuchs: A New Orleans police officer and O'Reilly's love interest.
Gralen Banks as Choo Choo Broussard: A member of the Wild Red Hawk Mardi Gras tribe and friend of Otis Johnson.
Angela Davis as Chantelle Fusilier: Evita's aunt who is a voodoo priestess and an expert on every divine pairing in New Orleans history.
Ally Maki as Mina Hess: An environmental engineer at Roxxon Gulf who befriends Tandy. Hannah Hardin portrays a younger Mina.
Tim Kang as Ivan Hess: Mina's father who worked with Nathan Bowen at Roxxon Gulf.
Introduced in season 2
Dilshad Vadsaria as Avandalia "Lia" Dewan: A struggling former medical student who leads the support group that Tandy and Melissa attend, and part of a sex trafficking ring in New Orleans that uses the Viking Motel as a front.
Brooklyn McLinn as Andre Deschaine / D'Spayre: A former jazz musician who becomes a community leader due to medical reasons, with emotion manipulating and despair-feeding abilities, and the leader of a sex trafficking ring in New Orleans where they use the Viking Motel as a front.
Cecilia Leal as Mikayla Bell: A shy and insecure woman getting over abuse who joins a support group with Tandy and Melissa.
Joshua J. Williams as Solomon: A young and sympathetic member of the Uptown Block Kings.
Guest
Introduced in season 1
Tim Bell as Bradford: A police officer and former partner of Detective Connors. He is later killed by Mayhem.
Mike Donovan as Rick Cotton: A rich bachelor whom Tandy robs
Gary Weeks as Greg Pressfield: Melissa's boyfriend who is a lawyer looking into the case involving Nathan Bowen's work at Roxxon
Dalton E. Gray as Benny: One of Tyrone's basketball teammates
Luray Cooper as "Big Chief" Roland Duplantier: The leader of a Mardi Gras tribe called the Wild Red Hawks and friend of Otis Johnson
Vanessa Motta as a professional killer disguised as a water delivery person
Andrea Frankle as Duchamp: The New Orleans Police Department's chief of police
Introduced in season 2
T.C. Matherne as Jeremy: Mikayla's abusive boyfriend
John Fertitta as Senator Asa Henderson: James Connors' uncle. He is later arrested when his cover-up of Billy is exposed.
Theodus Crane as Bo: A thug who is loyal to Lia and helps to keep an eye on the abducted women at the Viking Motel
Bianca Santos as Del: An abandoned girl enslaved at the Viking Motel
Justin Sams as Baron Samedi: A loa and the proprietor of the arcade in the Darkforce Dimension who held on to Cloak's soul. He released Cloak's soul when Evita had a loa wedding with him.
Maceo Smedley III, Lane Miller, and Devyn A. Tyler, who previously portrayed young Tyrone, Fuchs, and Tandy's ballet instructor from "Restless Energy", portray three different variations of Papa Legba.

Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1	10	June7,2018	August2,2018
2	10	April4,2019	May30,2019
Season 1 (2018)
Main article: Cloak & Dagger (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"First Light"	Gina Prince-Bythewood	Joe Pokaski	June7,2018	0.919
2	2	"Suicide Sprints"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Joe Pokaski	June7,2018	0.750
3	3	"Stained Glass"	Peter Hoar	Story by: Ariella Blejer & Dawn Kamoche
Teleplay by: Peter Calloway	June14,2018	0.548
4	4	"Call/Response"	Ami Canaan Mann	Christine Boylan & Marcus J. Guillory	June21,2018	0.606
5	5	"Princeton Offense"	Ry Russo-Young	Niceole R. Levy & Joe Pokaski	June28,2018	0.509
6	6	"Funhouse Mirrors"	Jennifer Phang	J. Holtham & Jenny Klein	July5,2018	0.499
7	7	"Lotus Eaters"	Paul Edwards	Joe Pokaski & Peter Calloway	July12,2018	0.538
8	8	"Ghost Stories"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Christine Boylan & Jenny Klein	July19,2018	0.401
9	9	"Back Breaker"	Jeff Woolnough	Niceole R. Levy & Peter Calloway	July26,2018	0.531
10	10	"Colony Collapse"	Wayne Yip	Joe Pokaski	August2,2018	0.423
Close ▲
Season 2 (2019)
Main article: Cloak & Dagger (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
11	1	"Restless Energy"	Jennifer Phang	Joe Pokaski	April4,2019	0.477
12	2	"White Lines"	Jeff Woolnough	Peter Calloway & Niceole R. Levy	April4,2019	0.399
13	3	"Shadow Selves"	Matt Hastings	Kate Rorick & Marcus J. Guillory	April11,2019	0.404
14	4	"Rabbit Hold"	Amanda Row	Joy Kecken & J. Holtham	April18,2019	0.385
15	5	"Alignment Chart"	Rachel Goldberg	Niceole R. Levy & Peter Calloway	April25,2019	0.359
16	6	"B Sides"	Lauren Wolkstein	Kate Rorick & Pornsak Pichetshote	May2,2019	0.311
17	7	"Vikingtown Sound"	Joe Pokaski	Joe Pokaski	May9,2019	0.306
18	8	"Two Player"	Jessika Borsiczky	Kate Rorick & Joy Kecken	May16,2019	0.235
19	9	"Blue Note"	Ami Canaan Mann	Alexandra Kenyon & Peter Calloway	May23,2019	0.324
20	10	"Level Up"	Philip John	Joe Pokaski	May30,2019	0.346
Close ▲
Production
See also: Production of season 1 and season 2
Development
At San Diego Comic-Con International 2011, head of Marvel Television Jeph Loeb announced the series Cloak & Dagger was in development at ABC Family. The series, which would be set in post-Hurricane Katrina New Orleans, would follow Cloak and Dagger as the two "find each other and realize that their powers both complement and complicate their lives." Around this time, Loeb had a meeting with ABC Family, who recommended Joe Pokaski to Loeb as a potential writer to work with Marvel Television, based on a script for another series the channel had recently received from Pokaski. Loeb reached out to Pokaski about working with Marvel, who was interested in writing Cloak and Dagger since "there's something that felt so right about them for the television format", and wrote the script. Pokaski was attracted to Cloak and Dagger as a television series, because the duo are the only people who understand each other's situations, compared to other coming-of-age teenage television series such as Buffy the Vampire Slayer or Smallville where the main characters have no one who can relate to them.

In April 2016, the series received a straight-to-series order for Freeform, the new name of ABC Family, from ABC Signature Studios and Marvel Television. By August 2016, Pokaski had signed on to the series as showrunner and executive producer. Pokaski noted his script had "sat in a drawer for five years", before Freeform executive Karey Burke found it and "took a chance on it". Loeb, Jim Chory, Alan Fine, Stan Lee, Joe Quesada, and Karim Zreik also serve as executive producers, while Jenny Klein produces the series. On July 20, 2018, Freeform renewed the series for a 10-episode second season, which premiered on April 4, 2019. The series was canceled on October 24, 2019.

Writing
When announcing the series, Freeform called it their "first venture into the Marvel Cinematic Universe", and described it as a "superhero love story", a premise that Variety called "a seamless fit for Freeform" given the channel's target audience of "Becomers" (the 14–34 age demographic). Addressing this, Loeb said, "It's a love story that happens to have characters that have always traditionally been in that age group. It's not like we took something and made it into a Young adult fiction. It speaks to a YA audience and is a YA property. Would I do Punisher on Freeform? I don't think that's going to connect the same way." Pokaski was pleased with the diversity of the writers for the first season, with a majority of black writers and many women writers. He stated, "It all starts with representation ... We make sure our writers room is filled with as many people who do not look like me as possible. We have really good writers who allow ourselves a wide enough berth to have real conversations and find the truth across our experiences. ... It's what people talk about a lot but we try to actually execute it."

The majority of the writers from the first season returned for the second. The second season would explore the themes of women's rights and issues through Mina Hess, while "continuing to drive the conversation forward about race in America".

Pokaski spoke about the differences in Cloak and Dagger's origin story from the comics, saying, "I think the original [comic] stories were fantastic, but for the time, while they were a little progressive, they were a little bit sexist and racist once you got into it, for now. What we tried to do was deconstruct it and make it about Tandy and Tyrone, understand who they were." Since the original comics "are a little dated", Pokaski and the writers could to make adjustments accordingly as Cloak and Dagger do not have an established comics mythology, making sure "we were telling the right story for now". He also felt Loeb's idea of having the duo live in New Orleans, opposed to New York City as in the comics, was a "great idea". Since Marvel was also developing The Defenders at the same time, moving to the New Orleans setting "came up pretty early", since Pokaski felt New York City of the Marvel Cinematic Universe had enough superheroes. When looking for alternate locations, and considering places with filming tax incentives, New Orleans "felt so right for Tandy and Tyrone. It felt gothic, it felt a little bit dark, it felt like a place of light and shadow. The more we learned about the city and about its history and about voudon or the Mardi Gras Indians, it felt like it was the only place for Tandy and Tyrone to start."

Pokaski did not want to rush the romantic relationship between the duo in the first season, and hoped the series would last long enough to allow for "an interesting path to their relationship." Pokaski intended to create 100 episodes for the series, and had "a definitive plan for five season".

Casting
Olivia Holt and Aubrey Joseph at WonderCon 2018 promoting Cloak & Dagger
Olivia Holt and Aubrey Joseph at WonderCon 2018 promoting Cloak & Dagger
In January 2017, Olivia Holt and Aubrey Joseph were cast as Tandy Bowen / Dagger and Tyrone Johnson / Cloak, respectively. Gina Prince-Bythewood, the director of the first episode, called the casting process "really, really tough ... it was three days before we were supposed to leave [to begin filming] and we didn't find [actors for Tandy and Tyrone]. People started getting willing to settle and the people that were on the table were 27, 28. They felt grown and it didn't feel right for the show. Then Aubrey and Olivia walked in the door, and they had such great chops individually".

The following month, Andrea Roth was cast as Melissa Bowen, Tandy's mother; Gloria Reuben and Miles Mussenden were cast as Tyrone's parents, Adina and Otis Johnson; and Carl Lundstedt and J. D. Evermore were cast as Liam Walsh and James Connors, respectively. Emma Lahana and Jaime Zevallos also were cast as Brigid O'Reilly and Francis Delgado.

Filming
Filming for the series took place in New Orleans, with the first season using the working title Shadows. Tami Reiker served as cinematographer for the first episode. Because of other commitments, she did not plan to continue with the series, and, along with Prince-Bythewood, recommended Cliff Charles to replace her, who served as cinematographer on the remaining episodes of season one. The first season features many hand-held camera shots that established the "look and feel" of the series, in part because Pokaski "didn't want to wait for a dolly track to be laid".

Music
Mark Isham announced in May 2017 that he would compose the music for the series. Multiple songs are featured throughout the first season, some of which were collected and released on a digital soundtrack album on June 8, 2018, by Marvel Music and Hollywood Records. An album featuring Isham's score was released digitally on July 6.

Marvel Cinematic Universe tie-ins
Freeform executive Karey Burke said in April 2017 that the series is "not particularly connected" to New Warriors, which was slated to air on Freeform at the time, given "their tones are so wildly different", adding, "There are many degrees of separation with where they fall in the Marvel universe. But anything is possible with Marvel." In July, Loeb said there were no plans to crossover, nor to crossover across networks with the similarly themed Runaways on Hulu. He added that Marvel wanted the series to find its footing before further connecting with other elements of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, saying "You'll see things that comment on each other; we try to touch base wherever we can ... things that are happening in L.A. [where Runaways is set] are not exactly going to be affecting what's happening in New Orleans ... It's being aware of it and trying to find a way for it to be able to discuss in a way that makes sense."

Ahead of the series premiere, considering the larger events of the MCU at that point, Pokaski said he was "not allowed to talk about" how the series would connect to the events of Avengers: Infinity War but stated "We've had some exciting conversations about how we could artfully cross Tandy and Tyrone over [to other Marvel properties]. The beauty of these two is that they can show up anywhere [and it makes sense]." After the first-season finale, Pokaski expanded, saying he would "love" to have Tandy and Tyrone appear in the MCU films "as utility players the way they are in comics", but conceded "there are a lot of legal hurdles and corporate barriers to doing that". Regarding a crossover with the Runaways, Pokaski noted "there's hopefully there's some karma we can fulfill there" since the duo in the comics appear early in the Runaways comic series.

Roxxon Gulf, a division of the Roxxon Corporation company that has been featured throughout the MCU, is seen in the first season. The Darkforce dimension which fuels Cloak's powers was previously established in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and Agent Carter. Pokaski stated that "There are at least a dozen Easter eggs in the first season that Marvel approved, and a few more that I snuck in there." O'Reilly discusses formerly working in Harlem and her friend Misty Knight in the series, while her move to New Orleans is mentioned by her former New York colleagues in the second season of Luke Cage. Loeb noted the Luke Cage references were "not by mistake", with the potential for them to have become something more, such as having Simone Missick, who portrays Misty Knight, appearing in the series. Tony Stark and Danny Rand are also mentioned in the series. A newspaper article about Luke Cage, written by Karen Page, including a picture of the titular character portrayed by Mike Colter, is prominently featured in the second season.

In August 2019, Holt and Joseph were announced to appear in the third season of Runaways.

Release
Cloak & Dagger aired in the United States on Freeform and on ABC Spark in Canada, while Amazon Video aired the series in the United Kingdom and select additional European countries.

Reception
Ratings
Table info: Season, Timeslot (ET), Episodes, First aired,... ▼
Season	Timeslot (ET)	Episodes	First aired	Last aired	TV season	Avg. viewers
(millions)	Avg. 18–49
rating
Date	Viewers
(millions)	Date	Viewers
(millions)
1	Thursday 8:00 pm	10	June 7, 2018	0.919	August 2, 2018	0.423	2017–18	0.572	0.20
2	10	April 4, 2019	0.477	May 30, 2019	0.346	2018–19	0.355	0.12
Close ▲
Cloak & Dagger had the best series launch on Freeform in two years and Freeform's most-watched drama since "Till Death Do Us Part", the series finale of Pretty Little Liars in June 2017. After three days, "First Light" had 1.64 million total viewers, which was a 78% increase from its initial viewers, the largest three-day lift for any Freeform debut. "First Light" also had the biggest digital debut ever for the network, with 716,000 starts. The premiere drew 7.3 million views across linear and digital platforms and was Thursday's most-social scripted series with 112,000 engagements across Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Tumblr.

Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
For the first season, the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported an 89% approval rating based on 54 reviews, with an average rating of 7.5/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Cloak & Dagger blends soapy drama with superhero grit to create an exciting, surprisingly thoughtful addition to the genre — even if it falls prey to a certain amount of narrative bloat." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 68 out of 100 based on reviews from 15 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

The second season has an 86% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 7 reviews, with an average rating of 9.1/10.

Analysis
Upon the series' announcement, Vulture's Abraham Riesman wrote that Marvel had a unique opportunity with the series to tell a story "without needing to appeal to any kind of rabid fanbase or honor any iconic stories," because the characters have neither "any famous archnemeses," nor "a widely read graphic novel" that fans would be expecting to see. He concluded, "Cloak & Dagger could be something unique and potentially lovely: an attempt to build a new bit of filmed superhero iconography (mostly) from the ground up. There's so much to mine in this genre. It deals metaphorically with the burdens, risks, and liberations of power—and it has the storytelling freedoms offered by high-concept science fiction, fantasy, and magical realism." Pokaski revealed in August 2018 that he sent Riesman's article to Karey Burke and other executives on the series as encouragement for the direction they were planning to take the series, and to confirm that what they had released about the series did not sound "like we were blowing smoke".

Accolades
Table info: Year, Award, Category, Nominee(s), Result... ▼
YEAR	AWARD	CATEGORY	NOMINEE(S)	RESULT	REF.
2018	People's Choice Awards	The Sci-Fi/Fantasy Show of 2018	Cloak & Dagger	Nominated
Teen Choice Awards	Choice Summer TV Show	Cloak & Dagger	Nominated
Choice Summer TV Star	Olivia Holt	Won
Aubrey Joseph	Nominated
2019	Saturn Awards	Best Superhero Television Series	Cloak & Dagger	Nominated
Teen Choice Awards	Choice Fantasy Sci/Fi Actor	Aubrey Joseph	Nominated
Choice Fantasy/Sci-Fi Actress	Olivia Holt	Nominated
Close ▲
References
External links
Cloak & Dagger
More
Cloak & Dagger (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
1	1	"First Light"	Gina Prince-Bythewood	Joe Pokaski	June7,2018	0.919
A young Tandy Bowen is picked up from ballet by her father Nathan. Meanwhile, a young Tyrone Johnson is dissuaded from stealing a car radio by his brother Billy, only for them to be chased by police officer Connors. The Roxxon Gulf platform off the coast of New Orleans explodes, causing Nathan and Tandy to crash into the ocean, where Nathan dies, and causing Connors to shoot Billy. Billy also falls into the ocean, and Tyrone jumps in to rescue him. Tandy and Tyrone are both affected by an energy force from the rig. Eight years later, Tandy earns money by stealing from rich people and avoids her mother Melissa, whose new lawyer boyfriend Greg is working on a case against Roxxon. At a party, Tyrone and Tandy bump into each other and realize that they had been together after the explosion; the encounter activates super-powers in each. Tandy is later assaulted by Rick, someone she had robbed, and accidentally stabs him with a dagger of light. Tyrone discovers that he can teleport after an encounter with Connors, now a detective.
2	2	"Suicide Sprints"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Joe Pokaski	June7,2018	0.750
Detective Brigid O'Reilly begins investigating the stabbing of Rick, scaring Tandy to the point that she attempts to leave town. Tyrone becomes obsessed with catching Connors, leading to him neglecting basketball practice. He attempts to make up for it at the suggestion of Father Delgado, but his teammates beat him up due to his absences. When Tyrone returns home, he apologizes to his mother Adina for his recent behavior and after touching her he sees her greatest fear: that she will lose him like she did Billy. When Tandy discovers that Melissa took her stolen money for drugs, she decides to rob a wedding to get the money she needs to flee. She is helped by her boyfriend Liam, but becomes scared of their relationship after seeing his greatest hope: that he wants to marry her. As they attempt to run away with the stolen money, O'Reilly arrests Liam. Tandy decides not to help him. Tyrone steals a gun from Adina and confronts Connors. As he is about to pull the trigger, Tyrone unintentionally teleports to the middle of a road where Tandy is driving.
3	3	"Stained Glass"	Peter Hoar	Story by: Ariella Blejer & Dawn Kamoche
Teleplay by: Peter Calloway	June14,2018	0.548
O'Reilly realizes that Tandy was responsible for stabbing Rick after deducing that he was trying to rape her. Tandy struggles to recover from crashing after swerving to avoid Tyrone, and arrives home to Melissa and Greg before O'Reilly arrives looking for her. Tandy sneaks away while Melissa and Greg talk to O'Reilly. Concussed, Tandy falls unconscious on a bus. Tyrone meets with his classmate Evita who takes him to voodoo priestess Auntie Chantelle for spiritual guidance. She has him bathe in various charms and spices to induce a fugue state. Both Tandy and Tyrone experience a surreal vision of each other, with Tandy attempting to stop Tyrone from taking revenge against Connors and Tyrone stopping Tandy from running away from her problems. Tandy meets with O'Reilly privately to explain her story, but the corrupt Connors has already closed the case. Tyrone decides to pursue a relationship with Evita. Later, he follows Tandy to the abandoned church in which she lives and confronts her about their shared connection.
4	4	"Call/Response"	Ami Canaan Mann	Christine Boylan & Marcus J. Guillory	June21,2018	0.606
Tyrone and Tandy talk about their personal lives and issues, explaining the visions that they saw of each other. Tyrone decides to falsify a stolen bike report, using his father Otis's bolt cutters, to get close to Connors; he ends up running out of the police station in fear. Otis discovers that Tyrone stole the bolt cutters and, fearful that Tyrone will become a criminal, takes him to see Big Chief Roland Duplantier of the Wild Red Hawks, a Mardi Gras tribe. Tyrone learns that Billy was designing a cloak for the next march and with Otis's approval he decides to complete it. Tandy discovers that Greg, who is already married, genuinely cares for Melissa and decides to help him research Roxxon. However, Melissa breaks up with Greg and when Tandy goes to see him again he is assassinated. Tandy tries to commit suicide by drowning, but changes her mind and uses her powers to survive. Tyrone returns to the police station and asks for O'Reilly while Tandy returns to Greg's office and takes the Roxxon files he had found as evidence to clear Nathan's name.
5	5	"Princeton Offense"	Ry Russo-Young	Niceole R. Levy & Joe Pokaski	June28,2018	0.509
O'Reilly agrees to investigate Connors as long as Tyrone stays away. Instead, he meets with Billy's friend Duane Porter hoping he will know something that can help. Tandy applies as an intern at Roxxon Gulf to get close to the executives there and sees that many of them wish to overthrow their boss. Tyrone plays in a basketball tournament, but during halftime he accidentally teleports to a Roxxon party that Tandy is attending. Together they discover that Roxxon Chief Executive of Risk Management Peter Scarborough was responsible for defaming Nathan. Tyrone teleports back just in time for the game to resume. As Tyrone plays, he picks up on the opposing players' fears and ends up throwing the game. Tandy meets Scarborough and uses her powers to see his greed. O'Reilly tries to get close with Connors by pretending to be loose with the law herself. After a night with Evita, Tyrone discovers that Duane is working with Connors to distribute drugs despite knowing that he killed Billy. Tandy meets Mina Hess, the daughter of Nathan's colleague Ivan.
6	6	"Funhouse Mirrors"	Jennifer Phang	J. Holtham & Jenny Klein	July5,2018	0.499
Evita and Auntie Chantelle begin studying Tyrone, believing that he is part of a "Divine Pairing" and that either he or Tandy will have to die to save New Orleans. Tyrone attempts to work for Duane, while Tandy becomes an intern for Mina. At Tandy's suggestion, Tyrone steals a bag of drugs that Duane is distributing and returns it to him to earn Duane's trust. Duane then agrees to involve Tyrone in the business, and takes him to meet with Connors, who arrives under the pretense of a drug bust. Connors is paired with O'Reilly, but is able to stall her. Connors confronts Duane about the bag of drugs being stolen, and sets up a situation in which O'Reilly is forced to shoot and kill Duane. This is witnessed by Tyrone, who Connors sees before he escapes. Tandy learns about Ivan and Nathan from Mina, but Mina realizes who Tandy is and leaves. Tandy discovers that Ivan has been in a catatonic state since the rig explosion but is unable to see into his mind. Mina forgives Tandy afterwards. Back at the church, Tandy finds a grieving Tyrone.
7	7	"Lotus Eaters"	Paul Edwards	Joe Pokaski & Peter Calloway	July12,2018	0.538
Tandy asks Tyrone to help her enter Ivan's mind. Together they are able to find him reliving the final moments of the rig explosion over and over again. He is optimistically passive as he cannot remember how much time has passed, nor can he remember his name or Mina. The other employees on the rig had been infected by the strange energy that Roxxon was searching for, and appear in Ivan's memories as psychopathic killers. Ivan believes that the explosion can be stopped from the core, but was unable to do so in real life and has still been unsuccessful in his attempts since. Tyrone is able to do so with his powers, but it does not work due to being Ivan's mind. Tandy discovers that her father Nathan had called Ivan moments before the explosion, and takes the opportunity to talk to him in each loop. Tyrone convinces her that it is not actually her father, and they help Ivan reach the core after reminding him of Mina. Ivan awakens with no memory of Tandy or Tyrone, and is reunited with Mina. Tandy and Tyrone later listen to a recording of Billy together.
8	8	"Ghost Stories"	Alex Garcia Lopez	Christine Boylan & Jenny Klein	July19,2018	0.401
Ivan tells Tandy that Nathan hid evidence to clear their names in a safety deposit box. It is the eighth anniversary of the rig explosion, and she plans to remember her father with Melissa later on. First, she visits Tyrone and his family who are struggling with the anniversary of Billy's death, and steals an access card for Roxxon from Adina. She uses it to enter Roxxon and confront Scarborough with Nathan's evidence, and he offers to pay her for it. She refuses, wanting to clear her father's name instead. Tyrone completes Billy's cloak, and then uses it to better control his powers. This allows him to "haunt" Connors, pretending to be Billy's ghost, which leads to him confessing to the murder. O'Reilly arrests Connors. Tyrone joins Tandy and Melissa for their memorial, but when the three hold hands Tandy and Tyrone enter Melissa's memories and see that Nathan was abusive toward her. Upset, Tandy accepts Scarborough's bribe. To celebrate Connors' arrest, O'Reilly visits her new boyfriend and fellow police officer Fuchs, but she finds his dead body stuffed in a fridge.
9	9	"Back Breaker"	Jeff Woolnough	Niceole R. Levy & Peter Calloway	July26,2018	0.531
Tyrone's parents are informed of Connors' arrest and suspension, but neither react to it. Tyrone lashes out at school, leading to a confrontation with Father Delgado in which Tyrone sees the priest's fear of his drinking addiction and how it either killed a young child once, or could in the future. After learning about her father's abusive behavior, Tandy becomes addicted to stealing the hopes of others, including Mina's. She attempts to steal Liam's hope, but is stopped by Tyrone. She confronts him at school, where Evita realises that Tandy is the other half of the Divine Pairing, whom Auntie Chantelle believes will be needed soon due to Roxxon's drilling. Drunk while mourning Fuchs, O'Reilly attacks Connors but he beats her in front of her colleagues. Tandy discovers that Liam has stolen the money she got from Scarborough, and then finds Melissa being held at gunpoint by Greg's killer. Adina tells Tyrone that she just wants to protect him from the police, but now he is framed for Fuchs' murder. Mina sees an energy leak infect several Roxxon workers.
10	10	"Colony Collapse"	Wayne Yip	Joe Pokaski	August2,2018	0.423
Tandy saves Melissa and Mina, with the latter helping confront Scarborough. He reveals where the core for the city-wide system is, and Tandy leaves his mind trapped in a similar state to what Ivan's had been. Tyrone and O'Reilly are arrested, but the infection spreads to the precinct and the police officers begin fighting each other. Tyrone teleports to Tandy in time to stop an infected Mina, before the pair are told of their fate as the Divine Pairing by Evita. O'Reilly helps fend off infected civilians so Tandy and Tyrone can reach the core, but is shot and apparently killed by Connors. Her body is exposed to the energy before he pushes it into the ocean. Connors is then absorbed into the Darkforce emitted from Tyrone's cloak. Inside the core, Tandy and Tyrone are able to absorb the leaking energy and release it safely into the sky, saving the city and curing all those infected. Roxxon is blamed for the crisis. Tandy moves back in with Melissa while Tyrone moves into her church, as he is still wanted by the police. A mutated O'Reilly later emerges from the water.
Close ▲
Cloak & Dagger (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	U.S. viewers
(millions)
11	1	"Restless Energy"	Jennifer Phang	Joe Pokaski	April4,2019	0.477
Eight months after Roxxon Gulf's defeat, Tandy and Tyrone's lives have changed. Tandy has returned to taking ballet and has an improved relationship with her mother. They attend a domestic abuse support group where Tandy secretly threatens a fellow attendee's abusive spouse, to no avail. Tyrone lives in the abandoned church where he steals money and drugs from drug dealers to help O'Reilly, who is still recuperating from her traumatizing near death experience. She reprimands him, as he is only making things worse for New Orleans; with the gangs now becoming protective and may potentially go to war with one another. Tyrone keeps tabs on his parents and Evita, and meets with Tandy every week to watch movies. When Tandy discovers that Tyrone is conducting vigilante work, she is upset with him for not asking her for help. He later apologizes and the two head to the Rougarou Club to record a meeting with the gang leaders as evidence. However, someone attacks them, and Tandy and Tyrone enter the meeting to discover that everyone has been slaughtered.
12	2	"White Lines"	Jeff Woolnough	Peter Calloway & Niceole R. Levy	April4,2019	0.399
O'Reilly arrives at the Rougarou Club, where she demands that Tandy and Tyrone leave. Before doing so, Tyrone spots a symbol left by one of the murdered victims, and learns through Chantelle that it is a veve; a symbol of the voodoo spirituals. Tyrone reveals his powers to Evita, who is upset at his absence, but later forgives him. Tandy gets mad at Mikayla, a woman at the support group, for being attached to her abusive spouse and leaves. Tandy discovers that she is missing and finds comfort in the friendly support leader, Andre Deschaine. Tyrone and Tandy both learn that Mikayla was kidnapped by someone who forced heroin into her body; causing her to be hospitalized. O'Reilly seemingly develops a split personality with a more confident and violent outlook. She teams up with Tandy to look for the ambulance driver and Tandy uses a new ability to stop him while O'Reilly secretly kills him. Evita teaches Tyrone how to teleport other people with him and finds O'Reilly at home tied up. They both find Tandy and learn that there are two O'Reillys now.
13	3	"Shadow Selves"	Matt Hastings	Kate Rorick & Marcus J. Guillory	April11,2019	0.404
The second O'Reilly, dubbed Mayhem, was split off from the original after being hit with the dark energy combined with the blackout. Angry and confused, Mayhem spends the following months hunting for Connors and coerces Father Delgado to help her after he quit his job and became a homeless drunk. When Connors' trail goes cold, Mayhem decides to look for the string of missing girls in her own violent way. In the present, Tandy, Tyrone, and O'Reilly go to Mina to learn about the recent anomaly. They discover Mayhem's plan to hunt down and kill all of her leads. After a brief encounter in a strip club, Tandy begins to falter as Mayhem is doing more to rescue victims and defeat the criminals. However, after using her hope touch on a rescued girl, she learns that they have no hope. Tyrone gets information on where the girls were to be taken to and he and Tandy find and rescue more kidnapped victims. Mayhem arrives and attempts to kill a young gang member, but Tyrone absorbs her into his cloak. She finds herself in a void, where she re-confronts Fuchs' death.
14	4	"Rabbit Hold"	Amanda Row	Joy Kecken & J. Holtham	April18,2019	0.385
Tandy convinces Tyrone to have her enter his dark dimension by bringing out one of his fears. While inside, she encounters "That Which Stands at the Crossroads", which takes the form of a young Tyrone and sends her on a spiritual journey. Tandy temporarily gives up her powers, resulting in Tyrone losing his, as she enters a reconstruction of a mall where she encounters Mayhem. Tandy is forced to relive repressed memories of her father's abuse towards her mother while Mayhem finds and attempts to kill a disheveled Connors. The Uptown Block Kings recognize Tyrone and find Adina's address. O'Reilly warns Tyrone as he and his mother flee from the gangs. They take refuge at an abandoned convent, but are found by gang member Solomon, who Tyrone and Adina ultimately talk down as Tyrone had saved him from Mayhem. Tyrone has O'Reilly bring the cops, but they arrive with lethal force for Tyrone. As Adina is taken away, Tandy uses her abilities and has herself and Connors freed. Back at the church, Connors flees as Tandy and Tyrone recover.
15	5	"Alignment Chart"	Rachel Goldberg	Niceole R. Levy & Peter Calloway	April25,2019	0.359
As Tyrone searches for Connors, Tandy still continues to focus on the sex trafficking ring. Connors says his time in the other place has made him realize the wrongs of his actions and he deserves jail, but they must take down his influential uncle and his organization to clear Tyrone's name. Taking Connors to Otis, they come up with a plan to retrieve a hidden file of criminal actions hidden by his uncle Senator Asa Henderson. Tyrone gains O'Reilly's help who is slowly regaining her self-confidence. Thinking Lia was also a victim, Tandy stages a break up with Tyrone, who unknowingly poses as her abusive boyfriend; offending him into leaving Tandy. Lia opens up about her ex-boyfriend forcing her to become a prostitute, and he now runs a drug ring. Tyrone follows Connors' instructions, but the file isn't there. Teleporting Connors to the church, Tyrone almost kills him until he sees his genuine fear and regret of killing Billy; so he brings him to Adina instead for judgement. Tandy beats up drug dealers and is confronted by Lia. Lia uses a taser on Tandy as an ambulance pulls up, revealing herself as a trafficker.
16	6	"B Sides"	Lauren Wolkstein	Kate Rorick & Pornsak Pichetshote	May2,2019	0.311
Lia is revealed to be working for Andre, who has powers that keep sending Tandy's mind into different scenarios; she experiences one where Nathan and Billy never died as everyone attends a celebration when Tyrone becomes a police officer and she's a professional ballerina; one where she works for Roxxon and meets Billy and Tyrone at the rig with their supervisor Mina unimpressed with Nathan Bowen's daughter; and one where she's an addict that cons Liam and his girlfriend Mikayla, and meets Tyrone as a car thief. In each, Tandy and Tyrone activate their powers to support each other. Andre reveals that he tried to kill himself on the night of the Roxxon explosion, when he gained his abilities. Since then, he drains the hopes of the helpless for relief and places their despair in a metaphysical record store. Tandy seemingly escapes as she gets back with Tyrone and O'Reilly to capture Andre and Lia, but Andre shoots and kills Tyrone; revealing it to be an illusion to keep Tandy under. Andre and Lia eventually arrive at the Viking Motel, where they unload Tandy.
17	7	"Vikingtown Sound"	Joe Pokaski	Joe Pokaski	May9,2019	0.306
Tandy is trapped at the Viking motel and unable to use her powers due to a lack of hope. She is further drugged by her roommate Del, a girl who believes she has been abandoned, when she tries to escape and is grabbed by Lia's minion Bo. Tyrone meets Andre while looking for Tandy, who convinces him that Tandy abandoned him via the record store; which also inspires Andre to go to Chantelle for information on his veve. Mayhem is able to see Andre there, and puts on different records to motivate Tyrone to look for Tandy. Adina is torn between killing Connors for Billy or leaving him alive for Tyrone. She spares him when he tells her where Billy's body is. Chantelle tells Andre he could ascend to a Loa if he unlocked the secret of his veve. Andre then uses the memories of Evita's birth to instill sadness in Chantelle, killing her. Mayhem destroys the records so that Tyrone can rescue Tandy and Del realizes that Lia lied to her; infusing hope within her and giving Tandy her powers back. Tyrone and Tandy fight their way through the hotel and meet, but the former suddenly collapses.
18	8	"Two Player"	Jessika Borsiczky	Kate Rorick & Joy Kecken	May16,2019	0.235
Tyrone begins emitting dark clouds, so Tandy takes him back to the church. O'Reilly and Evita arrive, and the latter opens the door to the Loa dimension for the former and Tandy to go through. Tandy finds herself at an arcade run by Baron Samedi, who has Tyrone trapped playing Duel in D'Spayre, an arcade game. Tandy attempts to help Tyrone beat the game, but she cannot bring herself to finish it and tries to get Tyrone to stop. O'Reilly runs into Mayhem and the two agree to be one again, with the latter taking control every now and then. Evita learns of Chantelle's passing and realizes that she must marry a Loa in order to save her friends. Andre and Lia skip town, but Andre has to drain Lia's energy and abandons her when he figures out his veve. Adina visits Delgado and convinces him to become a priest again so that they can help Tyrone. She confesses that as soon as she got proof of Tyrone's innocence, she killed Connors. Tandy, Tyrone, and a reformed O'Reilly/Mayhem return. Later, Tyrone comforts Tandy after she learned that Melissa has relapsed.
19	9	"Blue Note"	Ami Canaan Mann	Alexandra Kenyon & Peter Calloway	May23,2019	0.324
Eight years ago, Andre's jazz career is derailed due to his migraines. When he tries to commit suicide, the Roxxon rig explodes as he slips into the ocean. He awakens in the hospital, where he is tended to by Lia, a nurse, and discovers his powers; which he uses to manipulate her into creating a community support group to heal himself. In the present, Tyrone contacts Solomon to set up a meeting with the rival gangs in New Orleans to look for Andre while Tandy and Mayhem find Lia's unconscious, and humming, body. Tandy and Tyrone go into her mind and pull out some music to "help a friend". Andre catches onto them and announces his plan to become a god by hitting the "blue note". Tandy and Mayhem get into a fight about what to do with Lia, ending with the latter leaving, while Tyrone meets with the gang leaders to get information as well as threaten them against selling drug to people who use it to enslave others. Tandy and Tyrone find Andre activating his veve with several people, including Melissa and Mikayla, in attendance. They all disappear as jazz music is heard.
20	10	"Level Up"	Philip John	Joe Pokaski	May30,2019	0.346
People begin disappearing all over the city and appearing in a trance in a metaphysical club to listen to Andre play his trumpet. As O'Reilly gets a scan about her condition, Mina also disappears. Tyrone and Tandy contact Evita who sets up a portal to the Loa dimension and both go through while Evita guards the candle connecting their entry. O'Reilly arrives to defend Evita from shadow soldiers with one of them looking like Fuchs to throw her off. Tyrone and Tandy make their way to Andre and are thrown into hallucinations where Tyrone battles his "perfect" self and Tandy battles her father. Despite Andre's efforts, Tandy and Tyrone come out victorious and use their powers to defeat Andre, killing him for good and setting everyone free. In the aftermath, Tyrone is cleared of his crimes as Otis and Adina rest easy, Senator Henderson is arrested when his cover-up was exposed, Evita holds a Loa funeral for Andre, Lia is seen picking up garbage with her fellow inmates following her arrest, O'Reilly drops Connors' body off at the police station with a sign that says "guilty" on him, Delgado takes over the abandoned church, and Melissa sees Tandy off as she decides to leave town. Tyrone joins her as the two, using info from O'Reilly, decide to travel together so that they can be heroes.
Close ▲
