Loki (TV series)
2021 Marvel Studios television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Time Variance Authority
Sophia Di Martino
List of Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Loki (TV series)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
Loki is an American television series created by Michael Waldron for the streaming service Disney+, based on Marvel Comics featuring the character of the same name. It is the third television series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) produced by Marvel Studios, sharing continuity with the films of the franchise. The series takes place after the events of the film Avengers: Endgame (2019), in which an alternate version of Loki created a new timeline. Waldron served as head writer and Kate Herron directed the first season, with Eric Martin and the duo Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead serving as head writer and leading the directing team for the second season, respectively.

Quick facts: Loki, Genre, Created by, Based on, Starring... ▼
Loki
Loki_%28TV_series%29_logo.png
Genre
Created by	Michael Waldron
Based on	Marvel Comics
Starring
Music by	Natalie Holt
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	2
No. of episodes	10
Production
Executive producers
Kevin Feige
Louis D'Esposito
Victoria Alonso
Stephen Broussard
Tom Hiddleston
Kate Herron (season 1)
Michael Waldron
Brad Winderbaum (season 2)
Kevin R. Wright (season 2)
Justin Benson (season 2)
Aaron Moorhead (season 2)
Eric Martin (season 2)
Producers
Tommy Turtle (season 2)
Rachel Alter (season 2)
Production locations
Atlanta, Georgia (season 1)
United Kingdom (season 2)
Cinematography
Autumn Durald Arkapaw (season 1)
Isaac Bauman (season 2)
Oliver Loncraine (season 2)
Editors
Paul Zucker
Calum Ross
Emma McCleave
Running time	41–56 minutes
Production company	Marvel Studios
Budget	$141 million (season 2)
Original release
Network	Disney+
Release	June 9, 2021–
present
Related
Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
Close ▲
Tom Hiddleston reprises his role as Loki from the film series, alongside Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Wunmi Mosaku, Eugene Cordero, Tara Strong, Owen Wilson, Sophia Di Martino, Jonathan Majors, and Neil Ellice. Sasha Lane, Jack Veal, DeObia Oparei, and Richard E. Grant also star in the first season, with Rafael Casal, Kate Dickie, Liz Carr, Ke Huy Quan and Richard Dixon joining for the second. By September 2018, Marvel Studios was developing a number of limited series for Disney+, centered on supporting characters from the MCU films. A series featuring Hiddleston as Loki was confirmed in November 2018. Waldron was hired in February 2019, and Herron joined by that August. Martin, who served as a writer on the first season, was revealed to be writing the entire second season in February 2022, along with Benson and Moorhead joining to direct the majority of the season's episodes; Dan DeLeeuw and Kasra Farahani also direct in the second season. Filming occurred in Atlanta, Georgia for the first season, with the second season being filmed in the United Kingdom.

Loki premiered on June 9, 2021. Its first season, consisting of six episodes, concluded on July 14 and is part of Phase Four of the MCU. It received positive reviews, especially for the performances. A second season, also consisting of six episodes, debuted on October 5, 2023, to conclude on November 9, as part of Phase Five.

Premise
After stealing the Tesseract during the events of Avengers: Endgame (2019), an alternate version of Loki is brought to the mysterious Time Variance Authority (TVA), a bureaucratic organization that exists outside of time and space and monitors the timeline. They give Loki a choice: face being erased from existence due to being a "time variant", or help fix the timeline and stop a greater threat. Loki ends up in his own crime thriller, traveling through time, hunting a female version of himself named Sylvie.

After the first season ends with the timeline breaking and the creation of a multiverse, the second season shows Loki teaming up with Mobius M. Mobius, Hunter B-15, and other TVA agents "in a battle for the soul" of the TVA. This includes a search through the multiverse for Sylvie, Ravonna Renslayer, and Miss Minutes.

Cast and characters
Tom Hiddleston as Loki:
The Asgardian god of mischief and Thor's adopted brother, based on the Norse mythological deity of the same name. This is an alternate, "time variant" version of Loki who created a new timeline in Avengers: Endgame (2019) beginning in 2012. Because of this, he has not gone through the events of Thor: The Dark World (2013) or Thor: Ragnarok (2017), which reformed the previously villainous character before his death in Avengers: Infinity War (2018). Head writer Michael Waldron compared Loki to Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Jobs since both were adopted and love being in control. Hiddleston expressed interest in returning to the role to explore Loki's powers, particularly his shapeshifting, which plays into the series' exploration of identity.
Gugu Mbatha-Raw as Ravonna Renslayer:
The former TVA Hunter A-23 who rose from the ranks to become a respected judge; she oversees the Loki variant investigation.:8 Season one director Kate Herron compared both Mbatha-Raw and Renslayer to chameleons, and said Renslayer was always "trying to dance the line" with Mobius of being both his superior and his friend. Herron added that Mbatha-Raw brought a warmth to Renslayer, while also channeling her pain.:8 Mbatha-Raw called Renslayer "incredibly ambitious" and felt there was the "ultimate personality clash" between her and Loki. She continued that Renslayer has "a lot on her shoulders" and has to make "morally ambiguous choices", which forces the character to keep secrets and build up layers. Waldron believed that Renslayer had "the making of a very complex villain".
Wunmi Mosaku as Hunter B-15:
A high ranking Hunter of the TVA determined to stop the variant that has been killing Minutemen troops.:9 Mosaku called B-15 a "badass" who is a loyal devotee of the TVA, with a strong affinity for the Time-Keepers, whom she believes are gods.:9 Mosaku was drawn to B-15's honesty and ability to be herself, noting, "She doesn't have any social etiquette running through her and her interactions. What she feels and what she thinks is what you see and what you get." Hunter B-15 was originally written as a male character, but changed after Mosaku's audition; she pointed out that the character's gender did not alter the essence of the type of character B-15 was meant to be.
Eugene Cordero as Casey: A TVA receptionist. Cordero also portrays Hunter K-5E in the new TVA seen at the end of the first season.
Tara Strong voices Miss Minutes:
The animated anthropomorphic AI clock mascot of the TVA created by He Who Remains, who she is in love with. Strong voices Miss Minutes with a "Southern drawl", which Herron felt was a representation of Waldron, since he is from the Southern United States. Her design was inspired by Felix the Cat and other cartoons from the early 20th century, with Herron calling Miss Minutes a "Roger Rabbit kind of character". Strong felt the "dire information" Miss Minutes is tasked with conveying was "the perfect mix of who she is", since it is said "with a smile on her face".
Owen Wilson as Mobius M. Mobius:
An agent of the TVA who specializes in the investigations of particularly dangerous time criminals.:7 Herron likened Mobius to a hard-boiled detective, with Wilson comparing him to the character Jack Cates in 48 Hrs. (1982).:7 Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige noted that the character is similar to Wilson in that he is unfazed by the MCU.
Sophia Di Martino as Sylvie:
A variant of Loki who is attacking the "Sacred Timeline" and has enchantment powers. She does not consider herself to be a Loki, using the name "Sylvie" as an alias. While Sylvie was inspired by Sylvie Lushton / Enchantress and Lady Loki from the comics, she is a different person with a different backstory from those characters as well as Hiddleston's Loki. Di Martino kept her regional accent for Sylvie to not sound "too posh or too well spoken", to help reflect the life Sylvie had lived. Hiddleston felt Di Martino incorporated "certain characteristics" he uses for Loki to portray Sylvie, while still making the character "completely her own". An extensive backstory for the character was written by series' writer Elissa Karasik, with Waldron hopeful some of the material could be featured in the second season.
Sasha Lane as Hunter C-20: A TVA Hunter kidnapped and enchanted by Sylvie to reveal the location of the Time-Keepers.
Jack Veal as Kid Loki: A young variant of Loki who created a Nexus event by killing Thor and considers himself the king of the Void.
DeObia Oparei as Boastful Loki: A Loki variant who makes wild exaggerations about his accomplishments.
Richard E. Grant as Classic Loki:
An old Loki variant who faked his death to escape being killed by Thanos and decided to live his life in seclusion until he became lonely. Classic Loki has the ability to conjure larger, more elaborate illusions than Loki.
Jonathan Majors as He Who Remains and Victor Timely: Variants of Kang the Conqueror.
He Who Remains is a scientist from the 31st century who ended the first multiversal war by destroying "evil variants" of himself, and created the TVA to prevent a new multiverse from forming and to keep his variants from coming back into existence. He is an original creation for the series, inspired by a separate comic book character of the same name as well as the character Immortus.
Victor Timely is an industrialist and inventor in 1893 on a branched timeline who has created an early version of the Temporal Loom. He has a stutter and an awkward, timid personality, and acts as a con man selling others his creations. Discussing the contrasting personality of Timely to other Kang variants, Wright said it was "fun" to have Timely be "sort of an eccentric, quiet inventor that maybe is, like, a bit out of time and out of place" rather than the expectation of the next Kang variant to appear in the MCU to be "some sci-fi villain from the future". Marvel Studios was excited to continue exploring Kang and his variants in the season, particularly wanting Timely for Loki, with executive producer Kevin Wright noting his inclusion and integration would be "a big part" of the season.
Rafael Casal as Hunter X-5 / Brad Wolfe:
A TVA Hunter with a close connection to General Dox. Casal called Hunter X-5 "Loki's mirror—another person who feels wronged. He's a bit of a lost character and almost feels like an earlier version of Loki, reflecting back to him.":9 Director Dan DeLeeuw called X-5 "more of a straight villain, more of a heavy; a foil for Loki". X-5 finds his real life on the Sacred Timeline and becomes the actor Brad Wolfe. DeLeeuw thought Casal "brought an interesting humanity" to his portrayal of Wolfe, explaining that it was his choice to become Wolfe to break free from the TVA being X-5's reality. As well, the creative team "couldn't resist" having a character who no longer believed in the reality of the TVA becoming an actor, given Wolfe now "puts on a perception of reality for a living".
Kate Dickie as General Dox: A TVA general who is part of the new council of judges following Renslayer's disappearance. She is searching for Sylvie and still believes in the TVA's mission to prune branched timelines.
Liz Carr as Judge Gamble: A TVA judge part of the new council.
Neil Ellice as Hunter D-90: A TVA Hunter.
Ke Huy Quan as Ouroboros "O.B.":
A TVA agent who works in its Repairs and Advancement Department. Described as the "quirky repair guy", Wright explained that every piece of technology at the TVA was either designed by O.B. or he knows how to fix it and keep it operational.
Richard Dixon as Robber Baron: An industrialist who purchases a faulty invention from Victor Timely at the 1893 Chicago's World's Fair.
Episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally released
First released	Last released
1	6	June9,2021	July14,2021
2	6	October5,2023	November9,2023
Season 1 (2021)
Main article: Loki (season 1)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"Glorious Purpose"	Kate Herron	Michael Waldron	June9,2021
2	2	"The Variant"	Kate Herron	Elissa Karasik	June16,2021
3	3	"Lamentis"	Kate Herron	Bisha K. Ali	June23,2021
4	4	"The Nexus Event"	Kate Herron	Eric Martin	June30,2021
5	5	"Journey into Mystery"	Kate Herron	Tom Kauffman	July7,2021
6	6	"For All Time. Always."	Kate Herron	Michael Waldron & Eric Martin	July14,2021
Close ▲
Season 2 (2023)
Main article: Loki (season 2)
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by ... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by:19–20	Written by	Original release date
7	1	"Ouroboros"	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin	October5,2023
8	2	"Breaking Brad"	Dan DeLeeuw	Eric Martin	October12,2023
9	3	"1893"	Kasra Farahani	Teleplay by: Eric Martin and Kasra Farahani & Jason O'Leary
Story by: Eric Martin	October19,2023
10	4	"Heart of the TVA"	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin and Katharyn Blair	October26,2023
11	5	TBA	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin	November2,2023
12	6	TBA	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin	November9,2023
Close ▲
Production
See also: Production of season 1 and season 2
Development
By September 2018, Marvel Studios was developing several limited series for its parent company Disney's streaming service, Disney+, to be centered on supporting characters from the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) films who had not starred in their own films, such as Loki; the actors who portrayed the characters in the films were expected to reprise their roles for the limited series. The series were expected to be six to eight episodes each and have a "hefty [budget] rivaling those of a major studio production". The series would be produced by Marvel Studios, rather than Marvel Television which produced previous television series in the MCU. Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige was believed to be taking a "hands-on role" in each series' development, focusing on "continuity of story" with the films and "handling" the actors who would be reprising their roles from the films. Disney CEO Bob Iger confirmed in November that a series centered on Loki was in development and that Tom Hiddleston was expected to reprise his role from the film series.

The series was expected to follow Loki as he "pops up throughout human history as an unlikely influencer on historical events". Marvel Studios chose to make a series about Loki because of his story potential, and because he had lived for thousands of years in the MCU and a series could fill in the blanks of his various unseen adventures. The series also provided Marvel Studios the opportunity to work with Hiddleston more, explore the character beyond his supporting role in the films, and show him build new relationships rather than just developing his relationship with Thor. This allowed Loki's previous film appearances to retain their integrity, so the series did not have to retread those storylines.

Hiddleston considered Loki's death in Avengers: Infinity War (2018) to be the emotional end of his character arc, though he knew when he filmed the death scene that he would make a cameo appearance in Avengers: Endgame (2019). That Endgame scene sees a 2012 version of Loki escape with the Tesseract, which was not intended by the writers to set up a future television series as Loki was not planned then. Hiddleston was unaware of where Loki had gone with the Tesseract when he filmed the scene in 2017, and did not learn about plans for Loki until around six weeks before Infinity War was released. He kept plans for the series a secret until the official announcement later in 2018, and later expressed excitement about being able to develop Loki differently by taking an earlier version of the character and bringing him into contact with new, more "formidable" opponents. Hiddleston worked with Marvel Studios executive and eventual series' executive producer Kevin Wright to create a 30-page document to define the series before any writers or directors were hired. The document included the main elements of the series, such as the Time Variance Authority, He Who Remains, and Victor Timely.

Michael Waldron was hired as head writer and executive producer of the series in February 2019, and was set to write the first episode. In August 2019, Kate Herron was announced as director and executive producer. In addition to Waldron and Herron, executive producers for the series include Feige, Louis D'Esposito, Victoria Alonso, Stephen Broussard, and Hiddleston, with Wright as a co-executive producer. The first season consists of six, 40–50-minute episodes.

Loki was originally planned as a single season, but during production of the first season it was realized that there was "so much to explore with Loki" and the story could continue; Hiddleston and Wright began having conversations during production of the season one episode "Lamentis" regarding "how this world could build out" to "dive deeper into it". Development on a second season had begun by November 2020. In January 2021, Waldron signed an overall deal with Disney and part of that deal included his involvement in the second season of Loki "in some capacity". Marvel Studios producer Nate Moore, who served as an executive producer on the series The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, believed Loki had "really irreverent and clever and cool" storylines that lent to the series having multiple seasons rather than being a one-off event. A second season was confirmed through a mid-credits scene in the first-season finale. Herron said she would not return as director for the second season, and in July 2021, Waldron said it "remain[ed] to be seen" if he would be involved. In February 2022, the directing duo Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead were hired to direct a majority of the episodes for the second season, while Eric Martin, a first-season writer who took over some of Waldron's duties during production on that season, was set to write the six-episode second season. Benson and Moorhead previously directed two episodes of Moon Knight (2022), which went "so smoothly" that Marvel Studios wanted the duo to work on other projects, and they were quickly chosen for the second season of Loki. Hiddleston and Waldron were set to return as executive producers at that time. Dan DeLeeuw, a visual effects supervisor and second unit director on several MCU films, and series' production designer Kasra Farahani were revealed as directors for the second season in June. Wright was upped to executive producer for the second season, and joined the season one executive producers with fellow Marvel Studios executive Brad Winderbaum, as well as Benson, Moorhead, and Martin.

Regarding future seasons, Wright called the series "open-ended", with no third season planned by the release of the second in October 2023. However, he thought there were still more stories to tell with the character in the world they created for the series, as well as the larger MCU, and was hopeful by the end of the second season, Loki would be in "a certain place emotionally" to have him rejoin the larger MCU, specifically meeting Thor. Wright also hoped that other MCU properties would utilize the TVA, feeling they could "be this exciting connective tool for all of this storytelling".

Writing
The series begins after Avengers: Endgame, which saw Loki steal the Tesseract during the 2012 events of The Avengers (2012), creating an alternate timeline from the main MCU films. The first season sees the Loki time variant traveling through time and altering human history, with a "man-on-the-run" and an "unexpected" science fiction quality to it; the season also explores Loki's identity. Loki falls in love with his female variant, Sylvie, in the season, which was a large part of Waldron's pitch for the series. He noted they were uncertain if portraying Loki falling in love with another version of himself was "too crazy". He continued by saying Loki was "ultimately about self-love, self-reflection, and forgiving yourself" and it "felt right" for the series be the character's first "real love story".

Feige stated in November 2019 that the series would tie-into Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, but in May 2021 he would not reconfirm this or whether the series would tie in with any other MCU projects, though he did say the series would "lay the groundwork" for the future of the MCU.:1 Waldron noted that, as with all MCU properties, the aim was for Loki to have "wide-reaching ramifications" across the franchise. In the first-season finale, "man behind the curtain" of the TVA is revealed to be He Who Remains, a variant of the Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023) character Kang the Conqueror. Jonathan Majors portrays both roles, and Waldron felt it made "so much sense" to introduce Majors in the series, since Kang is "a time-traveling, multiversal adversary" and thought to be "the next big cross-movie villain". Marvel Studios was not initially planning to have "The Multiverse Saga", which comprises Phase Four, Phase Five, and Phase Six, revolve around Kang, but decided to after seeing Majors' performance in the episode and the dailies while filming Quantumania. The first-season finale also sets up the events of Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, and elements of Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021).

The second season helps connect the entire Multiverse Saga. Wright stated that the creatives wanted to push the weirdness of the series further in the second season, while still keeping the longer, character-driven moments, notably the friendship between Loki and Mobius. Much of the season was about each character becoming the best versions of themselves. According to Martin, the themes of the second season were order versus chaos and "what happens in a power vacuum", likening the season's overarching concept to the phrase "you break it, you buy it", while still continuing the ideas of free will and destiny from the first season.

Casting
The starring cast for the first season includes Hiddleston as Loki, Gugu Mbatha-Raw as Ravonna Renslayer, Wunmi Mosaku as Hunter B-15, Eugene Cordero as Casey and later Hunter K-5E, Tara Strong voicing Miss Minutes, Owen Wilson as Mobius M. Mobius, Sophia Di Martino as Sylvie, Sasha Lane as Hunter C-20, Jack Veal as Kid Loki, DeObia Oparei as Boastful Loki, Richard E. Grant as Classic Loki, and Jonathan Majors as He Who Remains. Neil Ellice recurs in the season as Hunter D-90.

Hiddleston, Di Martino, Mbatha-Raw, Mosaku, Cordero, Strong, Ellice, and Wilson return as Loki, Sylvie, Renslayer, Hunter B-15, Casey / Hunter K-5E, Miss Minutes, Hunter D-90, and Mobius, respectively, for the second season. Cordero and Ellice were made series regulars for the second season. Majors also returns in the season as He Who Remains, while also portraying an additional Kang the Conqueror variant Victor Timely, who was introduced at the end of Quantumania. Joining them for the season are Rafael Casal as Hunter X-5 / Brad Wolfe, Kate Dickie as General Dox, Liz Carr as Judge Gamble, Ke Huy Quan as Ouroboros "O.B.", and Richard Dixon as Robber Baron.

Filming
Filming for the first season occurred at Pinewood Atlanta Studios, with Autumn Durald Arkapaw serving as cinematographer.:2 Location shooting took place in the Atlanta metropolitan area. Production on the first season was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Filming for the second season occurred at Pinewood Studios in the United Kingdom, and on location in London, with Isaac Bauman and Oliver Loncraine serving as cinematographers.:2

Visual effects
Visual effects for the series were provided by Cantina Creative, FuseFX, Industrial Light & Magic, and Trixter, with Crafty Apes, Digital Domain, Luma Pictures, Method Studios, Rise FX, and Rodeo FX also providing visual effects in the first season, and Framestore and Rising Sun Pictures also providing visual effects in the second.

Music
Natalie Holt serves as composer of the series. The score for the first season was released digitally by Marvel Music and Hollywood Records in two volumes: music from the first three episodes was released on July 2, 2021, and music from the last three episodes was released on July 23. The first episode's end credits track "TVA" was released as a single on June 11.

Release
Streaming
Loki debuted on Disney+ on June 9, 2021, with the first season consisting of six episodes, concluding on July 14. It is part of Phase Four of the MCU. The second season will also consist of six episodes, and premiered on October 5, 2023, concluding on November 9, as part of Phase Five of the MCU.

Home media
The first season of Loki was released on Ultra HD Blu-ray and Blu-ray by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on September 26, 2023.

Reception
See also: Reception of season 1
Audience viewership
In May 2022, Feige announced that Loki was the most-watched Marvel Studios Disney+ series to date.

Critical response
Table info: Season, Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, 1, 2... ▼
Close ▲
For the first season, the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 92% approval rating with an average rating of 7.9/10, based on 338 reviews. The critical consensus reads, "A delightful diversion from the MCU as we know it, Loki successfully sees star Tom Hiddleston leap from beloved villain to endearing antihero—with a little help from Owen Wilson—in a series that's as off-kilter, charming, and vaguely dangerous as the demigod himself." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 74 out of 100 based on 32 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews.

For the second season, Rotten Tomatoes reports an 84% approval rating with an average rating of 7.4/10, based on 123 reviews. The critical consensus reads, "Loki's dizzying, dazzling second season may rely on sleight of hand to distract from its slightly less satisfying storyline, but the end result still contains enough of that old Marvel magic to entertain." Metacritic assigned a score of 65 out of 100 based on 23 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews.

Documentary specials
Main article: Marvel Studios: Assembled
In February 2021, the documentary series Marvel Studios: Assembled was announced. The special on this series, Assembled: The Making of Loki, goes behind the scenes of the first season, featuring Waldron, Herron, Hiddleston, Mbatha-Raw, Mosaku, Wilson, Di Martino, Oparei, Grant, and Majors. The special was released on Disney+ on July 21, 2021. A special for the second season, Assembled: The Making of Loki Season 2, will be released on Disney+ on November 29, 2023.

References
External links
More
Loki
More
Loki (season 1)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Time Variance Authority
List of Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
Loki (TV series)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Loki (season 1)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The first season of the American television series Loki, based on Marvel Comics featuring the character of the same name, sees Loki brought to the mysterious Time Variance Authority (TVA) after stealing the Tesseract during the events of Avengers: Endgame (2019), and is forced to help catch a dangerous variant version of himself. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films and television series of the franchise. The season was produced by Marvel Studios, with Michael Waldron serving as head writer and Kate Herron directing.

Quick facts: Loki, Starring, Country of origin, No. of epi... ▼
Close ▲
Tom Hiddleston reprises his role as Loki from the film series, with Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Wunmi Mosaku, Eugene Cordero, Tara Strong, Owen Wilson, Sophia Di Martino, Sasha Lane, Jack Veal, DeObia Oparei, Richard E. Grant, and Jonathan Majors also starring. Loki was officially confirmed among the various Disney+ series in development from Marvel Studios in November 2018, along with Hiddleston's involvement. Filming began in February 2020 in Atlanta, Georgia, but was halted in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Production resumed that September and completed in December. The series takes place after the events of the film Avengers: Endgame, in which an alternate version of Loki created a new timeline, diverging from the events of The Avengers (2012). The season has a crime thriller tone, and sets up the events of the MCU films Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022) and Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023).

The first season premiered on Disney+ on June 9, 2021, running for six episodes until July 14, as part of Phase Four of the MCU. The season has received positive reviews, with praise for the performances, musical score, and visuals. A second season was announced in July 2021.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by,... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
1	1	"Glorious Purpose"	Kate Herron	Michael Waldron	June9,2021
Loki is arrested by the Time Variance Authority (TVA) when he creates a new timeline after escaping from the Battle of New York with the Tesseract in 2012. The TVA resets the timeline, and this "variant" Loki stands trial in front of Judge Ravonna Renslayer for crimes against the "Sacred Timeline". Loki blames the situation on the Avengers, who had traveled back in time to 2012, but Renslayer says their actions were meant to happen unlike Loki's escape. Agent Mobius M. Mobius takes Loki to the Time Theater to review his past misdeeds and question his history of hurting people. He reveals that Loki, in his intended future, inadvertently causes the death of his adoptive mother Frigga. Loki attempts to escape, but gives up after realizing that the TVA's power exceeds that of the Infinity Stones. He returns to the Time Theater and watches more future events, including his own death at the hands of Thanos. He then agrees to help Mobius hunt another Loki variant, who was killing several TVA agents and stealing their timeline-resetting charges.
2	2	"The Variant"	Kate Herron	Elissa Karasik	June16,2021
Loki joins a TVA mission to the site of an attack by "The Variant" in 1985 Oshkosh, Wisconsin, where he stalls and attempts to bargain his way into meeting the Time-Keepers, who the TVA claims created them and the Sacred Timeline. Renslayer objects to Loki's further involvement, but Mobius convinces her to give him another chance. Loki researches TVA files and theorizes that the Variant is hiding near apocalyptic events where their actions do not affect the timeline. Loki and Mobius confirm this possibility by visiting Pompeii in 79 AD, before deducing that the Variant is hiding during a hurricane in 2050 Alabama. There, they are ambushed by the Variant who enchants several locals and TVA agent Hunter B-15. The Variant reveals herself to be a female version of Loki and rejects his offer to overthrow the Time-Keepers together. She sends the stolen reset charges to various points along the Sacred Timeline, which activate and create numerous branched timelines that throw the TVA into disarray. She teleports away, and Loki follows her.
3	3	"Lamentis"	Kate Herron	Bisha K. Ali	June23,2021
With the TVA distracted, the Variant arrives at their headquarters and attempts to find the Time-Keepers, but is followed and confronted by Loki. They are attacked by Renslayer, and Loki uses a TemPad to teleport them both to 2077 Lamentis-1, a moon that is about to be crushed by a planet. The TemPad runs out of power and is magically hidden by Loki. The Variant, who goes by Sylvie, agrees to work with Loki to charge it. They sneak aboard a train bound for the ark, an evacuation spaceship that could recharge the TemPad, but Loki gets drunk and draws attention. This leads to a fight with guards who throw him off the train. Sylvie follows him, only to find the TemPad broken. The duo continue on foot, intending to commandeer the ark so they can escape before Lamentis-1 is destroyed. On the way, Sylvie reveals that the TVA's workers are actually variants of people from Earth. Loki and Sylvie fight their way through guards and a crowd of people attempting to board the ark, but meteors from the oncoming planet destroy it before they can board.
4	4	"The Nexus Event"	Kate Herron	Eric Martin	June30,2021
Sylvie tells Loki that she escaped from the TVA as a child. They form a romantic bond, which creates a unique branched timeline and alerts the TVA to find and arrest them before Lamentis-1 is destroyed. Mobius leaves Loki in a time loop of a bad memory he has of Sif while Sylvie unlocks B-15's memories to prove that B-15 is a variant. Renslayer tells Mobius that C-20 died from a mental breakdown, but Mobius finds a recording of Renslayer interrogating a mentally sound C-20, who insists that the TVA workers are all variants. Mobius frees Loki from the time loop, but Renslayer confronts them and has Mobius "pruned". Renslayer takes Loki and Sylvie to the Time-Keepers, who order Loki and Sylvie to be deleted. With B-15's help, Loki and Sylvie defeat Renslayer and the Time-Keepers' guards. Sylvie beheads one of the Time-Keepers, but discovers they are androids before a recovered Renslayer prunes Loki. Sylvie overpowers Renslayer and demands the truth. In a mid-credits scene, Loki awakens surrounded by several other Loki variants.
5	5	"Journey into Mystery"	Kate Herron	Tom Kauffman	July7,2021
Renslayer tells Sylvie that when Loki was pruned, he was sent to the Void at the end of time, from which nothing has ever returned. They deduce that the TVA's true creator is hiding beyond the Void. TVA mascot Miss Minutes stalls for time until TVA troopers surround Sylvie, who prunes herself and soon meets Mobius in the Void. After interrogating B-15, Renslayer plans to reach the TVA's true creator. Meanwhile, the other Loki variants tell Loki that a massive cloud-like creature called Alioth destroys everything in the Void. After encountering a second Loki group that devolves into infighting, Classic Loki helps Loki, Alligator Loki, and Kid Loki escape. They come across Mobius and Sylvie, and Mobius returns to the TVA using a TemPad that Sylvie brought with her. Sylvie attempts to enchant Alioth while Loki distracts it, but they fail until Classic Loki sacrifices himself, creating an illusion of Asgard to draw Alioth's attention. Loki and Sylvie successfully enchant Alioth together, and the creature shows them the way to a citadel beyond the Void.
6	6	"For All Time. Always."	Kate Herron	Michael Waldron & Eric Martin	July14,2021
Renslayer leaves on a mission to find "free will" after Miss Minutes gives her information from the TVA's creator, "He Who Remains". B-15 proves to TVA troopers that they are variants by showing them a Renslayer variant who is a school vice-principal. Meanwhile, in the Citadel at the End of Time, He Who Remains tells Loki and Sylvie that he ended a multiversal war between his variants by using Alioth to destroy alternate timelines and created the TVA to maintain this peace. As he has grown weary, he offers them a choice: kill him and risk another multiversal war or replace him in overseeing the TVA and a singular timeline. Sylvie wants to kill him, but Loki pleads with her to stop. They kiss, but Sylvie sends Loki back to TVA headquarters. She ultimately kills He Who Remains, unleashing a multiverse with alternate timelines that the TVA cannot prune. At TVA headquarters, Loki warns Mobius and B-15 about He Who Remains' variants, but they do not recognize him and Loki sees that a statue of one of the variants has replaced statues of the Time-Keepers.
Close ▲
Cast and characters
Tom Hiddleston as Loki:
The Asgardian god of mischief and Thor's adopted brother, based on the Norse mythological deity of the same name. This is an alternate, "time variant" version of Loki who created a new timeline in Avengers: Endgame (2019) beginning in 2012. Because of this, he has not gone through the events of Thor: The Dark World (2013) or Thor: Ragnarok (2017), which reformed the previously villainous character before his death in Avengers: Infinity War (2018). Hiddleston expressed interest in returning to the role in order to explore Loki's powers, particularly his shapeshifting, which plays into the series' exploration of identity. Loki's sex in the series is denoted by the Time Variance Authority as "fluid", referencing the character's genderfluidity in Marvel Comics that had previously been speculated on for the MCU given his shapeshifting ability. Waldron said he was aware of how many people identify with Loki's genderfluidity and were "eager for that representation". The season also reveals Loki as bisexual, becoming the first major queer character in the MCU, and also explores more of Loki's magical abilities, such as his telekinesis and energy blasts.
Hiddleston also portrays President Loki, another variant of Loki who commands an army and is at odds with Kid Loki. Hiddleston called President Loki "the worst of the bad bunch", describing him as "the least vulnerable, the most autocratic and terrifyingly ambitious character who seems to have no empathy or care for anyone else".
Gugu Mbatha-Raw as Ravonna Renslayer:
The former TVA Hunter A-23 who rose from the ranks to become a respected judge; she oversees the Loki variant investigation.:8 Director Kate Herron compared both Mbatha-Raw and Renslayer to chameleons, and said Renslayer was always "trying to dance the line" with Mobius of being both his superior and his friend. Herron added that Mbatha-Raw brought a warmth to Renslayer, while also channeling her pain.:8 Loki explores the origins of Renslayer, which predates the character's appearances in the comics, and Mbatha-Raw enjoyed being able to start "something fresh" with the character. Mbatha-Raw called Renslayer "incredibly ambitious" and felt there was the "ultimate personality clash" between her and Loki. She continued that Renslayer has "a lot on her shoulders" and has to make "morally ambiguous choices", which forces the character to keep secrets and build up layers. Waldron believed that Renslayer had "the making of a very complex villain".
Mbatha-Raw also portrays Rebecca Tourminet, a vice-principal at a school in Fremont, Ohio, in 2018. Learning that there were different variants of Renslayer in different times was "mind blowing" to Mbatha-Raw.
Wunmi Mosaku as Hunter B-15: A high ranking Hunter of the TVA determined to stop the variant that has been killing Minutemen troops.:9
Eugene Cordero as Casey: A TVA receptionist. Cordero also portrays Hunter K-5E in the new TVA seen at the end of the season.
Tara Strong voices Miss Minutes:
The animated anthropomorphic clock mascot of the TVA. After being created solely to introduce the TVA, the writers found more ways to include Miss Minutes in the season since they found her to be a fun character. Miss Minutes has a "protective" relationship to He Who Remains, with Strong believing she understands "how important her role is and how important it is to the universe".
Owen Wilson as Mobius M. Mobius:
An agent of the TVA who specializes in the investigations of particularly dangerous time criminals.:7 Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige noted that the character is similar to Wilson in that he is unfazed by the MCU; Hiddleston helped Wilson prepare for the role by explaining and showing him moments from the MCU films, which Wilson felt was useful for when Mobius interviews Loki in the season. Wilson and Herron examined Good Will Hunting (1997) as inspiration for Mobius being a mentor and therapist for Loki who still pushes him.
Sophia Di Martino as Sylvie:
A variant of Loki who is attacking the "Sacred Timeline" and has enchantment powers. She does not consider herself to be a Loki, using the name "Sylvie" as an alias. While Sylvie was inspired by Sylvie Lushton / Enchantress and Lady Loki from the comics, she is a different person with a different backstory from those characters as well as Hiddleston's Loki. Di Martino said Hiddleston had "looked after" her and gave her advice on playing the character, while she did her own research and preparation for the role. Di Martino kept her regional accent for Sylvie, in order to not sound "too posh or too well spoken" to help reflect the life Sylvie had lived. Hiddleston felt Di Martino incorporated "certain characteristics" he uses for Loki to portray Sylvie, while still making the character "completely her own". Herron believed that Sylvie dealing with her pain put her in a similar headspace as Loki was in Thor (2011). Di Martino looked to the fight scenes of Atomic Blonde (2017) to create Sylvie's fighting style, calling her a "street fighter" with more of a brawler fighting style, compared to Loki's "balletic" style. An extensive backstory for the character was written by series' writer Elissa Karasik, with Waldron hopeful some of the material could be featured in the second season. Cailey Fleming portrays a young Sylvie.
Sasha Lane as Hunter C-20: A TVA Hunter kidnapped and enchanted by Sylvie to reveal the location of the Time-Keepers.
Jack Veal as Kid Loki: A young variant of Loki who created a Nexus event by killing Thor and considers himself the king of the Void.
DeObia Oparei as Boastful Loki: A Loki variant who makes wild exaggerations about his accomplishments.
Richard E. Grant as Classic Loki:
An old Loki variant who faked his death to escape being killed by Thanos and decided to live his life in seclusion until he became lonely. Classic Loki has the ability to conjure larger, more elaborate illusions than Loki.
Jonathan Majors as He Who Remains: A scientist from the 31st century who ended the first multiversal war by destroying "evil variants" of himself, and created the TVA to prevent a new multiverse from forming and to keep his variants from coming back into existence. He is an original creation for the series, inspired by a separate comic book character of the same name as well as the character Immortus. Describing He Who Remains as a "very charismatic sociopath", Waldron did not show how evil the character can be since much of his role is trying to convince others that his variants are worse than him. Majors talked with Herron and Marvel Studios about finding the psychology of the character, since He Who Remains has been in isolation and running the TVA for so long. Herron added that they tried to find "that fine line between the extrovert and the introvert of that character and how does he show that he's been living on his own". Majors utilized his classical clown training for the part, and believed that he smiled more as He Who Remains than any of his other roles combined. Additionally, he was inspired by The Wizard of Oz (1939), Sunset Boulevard (1950), Citizen Kane (1941), and Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory (1971) for his portrayal, believing He Who Remains was the "archetype of the wizard and what happens to him when he gets bored... [a]nd he becomes a trickster".
Majors also voices the "mindless android" Time-Keepers, in a reference to The Wizard of Oz where they are the Wizard. Majors was shown the designs of each Time-Keeper and provided various options for each voice.
Neil Ellice recurs in the season as TVA Hunter D-90, while Jaimie Alexander and Chris Hemsworth have uncredited appearances as Sif and the voice of Throg, respectively.

Production
Additional production information and episode-specific content can be found at each episode's article.
Development
Hiddleston promoting the series at the 2019 San Diego Comic-Con
Hiddleston promoting the series at the 2019 San Diego Comic-Con
In November 2018, Disney CEO Bob Iger confirmed that a series centered on Loki was in development for Disney+ from Marvel Studios and that Tom Hiddleston was expected to reprise his role from the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) films. Michael Waldron was hired as head writer and executive producer of the series in February 2019, and was also set to write the first episode. Waldron felt the series was an opportunity for "chaos and fun", such as connecting Loki to the story of D. B. Cooper, and his pitch to Marvel was to create a "big, crazy, fun time adventure" that would explore a new corner of the MCU and do something unexpected in each episode that would "blow up" the audience's ideas of what the series is.:3Waldron had assumed the audience was expecting the show to be similar to Quantum Leap, with Loki influencing historical events. Kate Herron, a fan of Loki, prepared a 60-page document for her pitch to be the series' director, feeling that a display of passion for the character would differentiate her from more experienced directors that were being considered. After developing her pitch during several interviews over Zoom with Marvel Studios executives Kevin Wright and Stephen Broussard, the London-based Herron was flown to Burbank for a meeting with top executives including Feige, Victoria Alonso, and Louis D'Esposito. Wright believed Herron's pitch had a "complete vision" of how to take the ideas for the series and turn them into something "wholly unique" to the MCU.:2 In August 2019, Feige met with Herron in London to offer her the job as director for the series. Within 48 hours, she flew to New York to meet Hiddleston and discuss the character with him, and then went on to Disney's D23 Expo event where she was announced as director and executive producer. Part of Herron's agreement to join the series was ensuring there was gender parity amongst the crew, particularly with the department heads. Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert had also been approached to direct the season, but opted to pursue their own film project, Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022), which also dealt with multiversal concepts.

After Waldron signed on to write the MCU film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022) in February 2020, writer Eric Martin was promoted to handle the day-to-day needs of the series including being the lead writer on set, with Waldron and Martin later collaborating on any rewrites for the series. The first season consists of six 40- to 50-minute episodes, equaling 280 minutes total. In addition to Waldron and Herron, executive producers for the series include Feige, D'Esposito, Alonso, Broussard, and Hiddleston. The season sees an alternate version of Loki brought to the mysterious Time Variance Authority (TVA) to help fix the timeline and stop a greater threat, ending up trapped in a crime thriller of his own making, traveling through time and altering human history.

Writing
Elissa Karasik, Bisha K. Ali, Eric Martin, and Tom Kauffman served as writers for the season, with Jess Dweck also assisting, working for 20 weeks to create the season's scripts. Waldron found this period challenging because he also had to write the pilot episode, which is normally done in a separate development period before additional writers are hired, to establish the world of the series while conceiving story elements for the rest of the episodes. The basic structure of the season was determined in the first three weeks of work, knowing the first episode would see Loki interrogated, the second having "the police work" with Mobius M. Mobius, the third would see Loki and his female variant Sylvie on Lamentis, the fourth had "the conspiracy coming undone", the fifth would take place in the Void or "some form of it", and the final episode would be at the Citadel at the End of Time.

The season takes place after Avengers: Endgame (2019), which saw Loki steal the Tesseract during the 2012 events of The Avengers (2012) and unwittingly create an alternate timeline from the main MCU films. In the season, this "time variant" of Loki travels through time and alters human history, with the season exploring the questions "Where did Loki go after he picked up the Tesseract? Could Loki ever make a friend? [W]ill the sun ever shine on him again?". Exploring alternate timelines and the multiverse allowed Loki to introduce versions of other MCU characters in addition to other versions of Loki. Waldron also hoped to explore more complex character questions such as what makes a person "truly good or truly bad", and what makes a hero, a hero, or a villain, a villain. He added that the season's setting in an alternate timeline meant it did not have to deal with the "immediate grief and aftermath" of Endgame and could instead "blaze a little bit of a new trail into a new corner of the MCU", which differentiates it from Marvel Studios' previous two Disney+ series WandaVision and The Falcon and the Winter Soldier that are set shortly after Endgame.

Waldron's pitch for the season was to create "a big, crazy, fun time adventure" that would explore a new corner of the MCU, something Herron agreed with. This included introducing the Time Variance Authority (TVA), an organization that monitors the various timelines of the Multiverse. Feige and Broussard had hoped to introduce the TVA into the MCU for years, but the right opportunity did not present itself until Loki. The introduction of the TVA convinced Hiddleston to make the series. Waldron felt the organization was fun because it presents something as "remarkable" as time travel as "soulless" and bureaucratic. Herron infused the season's depiction of the TVA with details and knowledge from her time as a temp worker, and the writers added "fun flourishes of discontinued things" from the past that the TVA would be able to access such as drinks from the 1990s like Josta and BoKu. The hierarchy of the TVA and its "inner workings" are explored, with The Hudsucker Proxy (1994) a reference for Herron on the hierarchy.

Our approach with time travel was the philosophy basically that time is always happening. So there are infinite instances of time always occurring at once. So you and I are having this conversation right now. There's another instance of us having this conversation 10 seconds ago. There's another instance of time of us having this conversation 10 seconds in the future. Generally, those three instances—you could literally say they're all different universes in a way[,] different timelines—are all the same. There are minute little fluctuations in each instance of time... different permutations and instances [always] happening. The TVA has their own barometer, their own gauge of what constitutes a deviation from the baseline, the way it's supposed to go [to produce] He Who Remains... If you zoomed in on the timeline, it wouldn't necessarily look like a straight line. It might look like almost the intertwined strands of a rope fluctuating and spiking here and there. When it becomes a problem for the TVA is when, according to their own rules, when could something branch off in a way that it could actually produce a new timeline that could produce a new version of He Who Remains? That is the practical thing that they're guarding against.

—Head writer Michael Waldron explaining the series' approach to time travel, the multiverse, and the mission of He Who Remains and the TVA to Matt Singer of ScreenCrush

The writers worked to conceive how time travel works at the TVA to ensure the audience would be able to easily grasp the concept and rules, expanding upon the method that was introduced in Avengers: Endgame. Waldron felt it was important to make this logic air-tight because, being a weekly series, the audience would have a week between each episode to "pick this apart". Speaking to the locations visited in the season, Waldron hoped to subvert the audience's expectations of Loki appearing at various monumental events in history, instead choosing to go places the audience knows "but didn't know well and maybe might be exciting to see".

Waldron felt that exploring the TVA's perspective on time and reality would help examine Loki's struggle with identity. He noted that the character had been out of control at pivotal parts of his life throughout the MCU films, and the TVA's place working with different timelines would take him further out of his comfort zone. Waldron explained that the nature of the work done by the TVA made the organization "uniquely suited to hold up a mirror to Loki and make him confront who he is and who he is supposed to be". Hiddleston also felt the season was about identity, as well as the difficulty of self-knowledge and self-acceptance, and "integrating the disparate fragments of the many selves that [Loki] can be", pointing to the series' logo, which features the "Loki" title shifting through various fonts, as an indication of this. As well, Hiddleston believed Loki was about the value of time and what it is worth to a person. Broussard stated that in addition to the time travel element, the season would have a "man-on-the-run quality to it", with Waldron adding that there was an unexpected science fiction quality to the season, which also explores mysterious conspiracies and bending reality. Loki also has murder mystery thriller elements. Love stories are also a part of the season, with Waldron highlighting the platonic love story between Loki and Mobius that is similar to the one between the characters Carl Hanratty and Frank Abagnale Jr. in Catch Me If You Can (2002). The season also sees Loki fall in love with Sylvie. This was a large part of Waldron's pitch for the series, noting they were uncertain if portraying Loki falling in love with another version of himself was "too crazy". He continued noting Loki was "ultimately about self-love, self-reflection, and forgiving yourself" and it "felt right" for the series to be the character's first "real love story".

Waldron said the season was structured as individual short stories rather than a six-hour film split into episodes, comparing his approach to the series The Leftovers and Watchmen. The series Mad Men was a philosophical and aesthetic inspiration for Loki, since Waldron believed it was a good example of a "rich character study" which is what he was aiming for in Loki. Other inspirations include Before Sunrise (1995), Catch Me If You Can, Quentin Tarantino films, David Fincher films like Seven (1995) and Zodiac (2007), The Silence of the Lambs (1991), Toy Story (1995), Armageddon (1998), the series Lost, and the series Rick and Morty (which Waldron was a writer on). Loki does not adapt a particular storyline from the comics, despite various comic references appearing. The Kid Loki story in Journey into Mystery, written by Kieron Gillen, was an inspiration to Waldron because it explored the character's humanity in a vulnerable space that is only possible with a child (and not necessarily because there is a child version of Loki in the season).

Feige stated in November 2019 that the season would tie-into Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, but ahead of the season's premiere he would not reconfirm this or whether the season would tie in with any other MCU projects. However, he did say the season would be "tremendously important" and would "lay the groundwork" for the future of the MCU, having more impact on the MCU than WandaVision or The Falcon and the Winter Soldier did.:1 Waldron noted that, as with all MCU properties, the aim was for Loki to have "wide-reaching ramifications" across the franchise. He collaborated closely with Jeff Loveness, the writer of the MCU film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023), since that film deals with the Quantum Realm and is closely tied to the multiverse. As well, Ali became the head writer of the Marvel Studios series Ms. Marvel (2022). The "man behind the curtain" of the TVA is revealed to be He Who Remains, a variant of the Quantumania character Kang the Conqueror. Jonathan Majors portrays both roles, and Waldron felt it made "so much sense" to introduce Majors in the season since Kang is a "time-traveling, multiversal adversary" and thought to be the "next big cross-movie villain". Marvel Studios was not initially planning to have "The Multiverse Saga", which comprises Phase Four, Phase Five, and Phase Six, revolve around Kang, but decided to after seeing Majors' performance in the season finale and the dailies while filming Quantumania.

The finale also sets up the events of Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, and elements of Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021). Broussard and Wright also met with Brad Winderbaum, executive producer of the animated What If...? series and WandaVision co-executive producer Mary Livanos to establish a "rule book" regarding the multiverse, its branch timelines, and nexus events. Chancellor Agard of Entertainment Weekly said that, while some MCU properties "have dealt with the fallout from previous entries", none have ever "attempted something so ambitious like this, in which several movies are dealing with a problem created by one thing".

Casting
With the November 2018 announcement of the series, Hiddleston was expected to reprise his role as Loki, with his involvement confirmed in February 2019 by Walt Disney Studios chairman Alan F. Horn. In September 2019, Sophia Di Martino was cast in the "highly contested" role of Sylvie, a female variant of Loki. Waldron wanted to cast an actress in the role that matched the energy that Hiddleston brought to Loki, and described Di Martino as an accomplished British actress with not much familiarity to U.S. audiences whose prior work had "blown [him] away". In January 2020, Owen Wilson joined the cast as a "prominent character", later revealed to be Mobius M. Mobius, with Gugu Mbatha-Raw cast the following month as the female lead Ravonna Renslayer, also said to be a "prominent character".

In March 2020, Richard E. Grant was cast as Classic Loki, reportedly for a single episode of the series. That September, Jonathan Majors was cast as Kang the Conqueror for the film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania, with executives at Marvel Studios, Quantumania director Peyton Reed, Waldron, and Herron all involved in the casting since Majors was set to first appear in Loki as a variant of Kang called He Who Remains. When casting for the role, Waldron hoped to find someone "charismatic and magnetic" who would draw audiences in with the part, as he does with Loki and Sylvie in the series. Marvel Studios were eager to work with and cast Majors after seeing his performance in The Last Black Man in San Francisco (2019). Though this variant is not Kang, Herron noted that the series "sets the table for [his] future outings" and called it "a massive responsibility and privilege" to introduce the character. Sasha Lane was also revealed to have been cast as Hunter C-20 by the end of the month. In December, Wunmi Mosaku's casting was revealed, with Mosaku playing Hunter B-15.

In April 2021, Eugene Cordero was revealed to be appearing in the series as Casey, and later Hunter K-5E, while voice actress Tara Strong was revealed to be voicing Miss Minutes with the series' premiere. Strong, who had to audition for the role, originally created three versions of the character to present to the creative team: one where she did the character with an accent, one that was "a little bit more A.I." and "Siri-like", and one that had some more emotion. Jack Veal and DeObia Oparei also star as the Loki variants Kid Loki and Boastful Loki, respectively.

Hiddleston also portrays President Loki, another variant of Loki who commands an army and is at odds with Kid Loki, Mbatha-Raw also portrays Rebecca Tourminet, a vice-principal at a school in Fremont, Ohio, in 2018, and Majors also voices the "mindless android" Time-Keepers. Neil Ellice recurs in the season as Hunter D-90. By December 2020, Jaimie Alexander was reported to be reprising her role as Sif in the series from past Thor films; she makes an uncredited cameo appearance in the season. Chris Hemsworth, who portrays Thor in the MCU, also has an uncredited cameo in the series providing voiceover for Throg.

Design
Herron worked with costume designer Christine Wada to create costumes that were "an outer reflection of the inner story" and would reflect the "wear and tear" throughout the series. Loki has a multitude of costumes in the series that reflect his journey.:10–11 Mobius' look in the series is meant to resemble Marvel Comics editor Mark Gruenwald, who was Marvel's "top continuity expert", as each member of the TVA in the comics is meant to be a clone of Gruenwald. Herron had initially imagined Mobius to have a scruffy look, but she and Wilson decided that it was not working. Wilson remembered a time he was on Saturday Night Live with silver hair and felt that would be an interesting direction to take the character; that ended up being part of the character's look. Di Martino noted Sylvie's "slightly disheveled" costume and broken horn headband were meant to help reflect the life she has had, with the costume and headband being similar to the Lady Loki design that appears in the Loki: Agent of Asgard comic series. Wada added concealed zippers to Di Martino's costume to allow her to breastfeed on set since Di Martino began work on the season four months after giving birth.

For the design for the TVA, Herron pulled visual inspiration from the films Metropolis (1927), Blade Runner (1982), and The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (2005), and the Brutalist architecture of southeast London to mix with the "midwest style" of the series Mad Men. She also looked to the "retro-futuristic" visuals of Brazil (1985). From the comics, Herron was drawn to "these amazing images of desks going on into infinity" to incorporate into the TVA design. Production designer Kasra Farahani had similar inclinations as Herron for the design of the TVA, separately feeling Brazil would be a good inspiration since that film is "like this big bureaucracy crushing the individual". As with the Brutalist architecture Herron was drawn to, Farahani also looked to Soviet-influenced Eastern European midcentury modernism as well as American midcentury modernism for "the skinning, the palette, and the whimsical patterns" inside the TVA. Some parts of the TVA are constructed from the same stone that makes up the Citadel at the End of Time. The goal for Farahani was to create a space that "you can't tell immediately if this is a warm and friendly place or if it's a place that wants to destroy you".

The TVA includes "elaborate ceilings", with Farahani working alongside cinematographer Autumn Durald Arkapaw to incorporate lighting into them; when Arkapaw shot from a low angle, it produced "beautiful graphic frames with dynamic shapes in almost every background". Farahani described the technology of the TVA as if "analog technology never stopped and digital technology never happened", with the analog technology getting "more and more sophisticated"; this helped with the anachronistic feel of the organization. The various screens in the TVA do not feature color, instead having a monochromatic, 8-bit digitized look. Much of the technology was custom built from old televisions and computers that were combined with "disparate, other random pieces of tech", while the TemPads were inspired by calculator watches and their interfaces inspired by the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Game Boy Camera. The world outside the TVA offices is depicted as an infinite city with inspiration from Metropolis and imagery of infinite spaces from the comic books, which Herron wanted to have a "level of unreality to it in some ways ... [because] it isn't on a planet and there isn't a sun". The majority of the season's locations and sets were 360 degree-builds on sound stages or a backlot, which gave Farahani greater control over the details and other aspects of the sets.

The series' main-on-end title sequence design was designed by Perception, and was inspired by the credits sequence of Seven. Loki was not originally intended to have a title sequence, but Herron enjoyed composer Natalie Holt's TVA theme so much, she decided a title sequence should be created around it.

Filming
Filming began on February 10, 2020, at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Atlanta, Georgia,:9 with Herron directing, and Autumn Durald Arkapaw serving as cinematographer.:2 The first season was filmed under the working title Architect. This was chosen as a reference to the Architect in The Matrix Reloaded (2003) and to serve as "[a] warning not to repeat what was done before us" since much of the season is expositional conversation and they did not want it to become the conversation between Neo and the Architect in Reloaded. Herron had a strong desire for Loki to be a love letter to science fiction films such as Brazil, Metropolis, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and Alien (1979). She also took visual inspiration from the series Teletubbies, and the noir quality of Blade Runner. Arkapaw also drew inspiration from Blade Runner as well as Zodiac and Klute (1971). She used framing and lighting, "very 70s" filmmaking techniques, to help with the storytelling and was thoughtful on "how characters are moving through space", as well as haze. Herron pointed to Jurassic Park (1993) as an example of the "big sci-fi with heart" tone that the series was aiming for.

The season was shot on Sony Venice digital cameras with Panavision T-series anamorphic lenses. Arkapaw expanded and de-tuned these lenses to adjust their flare quality, fall off, and focal length. Location shooting took place in the Atlanta metropolitan area throughout the month of February. On March 14, filming for the series was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Production resumed at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in September, and wrapped on December 5, 2020. The Atlanta Marriott Marquis portrayed the archives at the Time Variance Authority. On the TVA processing set, Arkapaw used working frosted incandescent ceiling lights as the set's key lights. Other Georgia locations used for filming included a quarry in northern Georgia that became the Lamentis-1 mining town and a vacant discount store that became the futuristic superstore, Roxxcart.:10 Industrial Light & Magic's StageCraft technology was not considered for the series, with Farahani stating it was not "creatively super-relevant" for what was desired.

Post-production
Herron began editing what had already been filmed during the production shutdown, which helped inform her, Martin, and Wright on what needed to be reworked or added once filming resumed to fit the series' intended tone. One of these aspects was Loki and Sylvie's relationship. Paul Zucker, Calum Ross, and Emma McCleave serve as editors. The series was completed on June 20, 2021. Visual effects were provided by Cantina Creative, Crafty Apes, Digital Domain, FuseFX, Industrial Light & Magic, Luma Pictures, Method Studios, Rise, Rodeo FX, and Trixter. The TVA's time doors were inspired by the shield practice scene from Dune (1984), with 150 versions of how the doors appeared created to test which would work the best.

Music
Quick facts: External video... ▼
Close ▲
Natalie Holt began working on a "suite of themes" for Loki, Mobius, the TVA, and Sylvie in August 2020, starting with music for the final episode and working backwards to the first episode, which helped create a "blueprint" for her score that had an "overarching narrative". Herron used these samples of music to help "shape the tone" and emotions of the series. Holt and Herron were both drawn to using the theremin for the series' music, with Holt believing the instrument's "character" was suited for the series and the score. Charlie Draper served as the theremin player on the score, assisting Holt with converting the score to the instrument's lower bass range. Holt's score combines the theremin with an orchestra (performed by the Budapest Film Orchestra), analog synthesizers, clock sounds, and Scandinavian folk instruments, much of which was created and contributed remotely while Holt worked in her studio in London. The scores for the final two episodes also feature a 32-person choir. Herron said Holt's music for Loki was "operatic and bold", as well as "very layered and electronic with a dark, strange energy" that was a good fit for the character.

Likening Loki to a Machiavellian character, Holt wanted his theme to have "gravitas and classical weight" in addition to a "space-age sound". She cited Wendy Carlos's Moog synthesizer sounds in A Clockwork Orange (1971) as an influence, since Holt saw similarities between Loki and that film's protagonist Alex. Holt also wanted to "juxtapose" and "interplay" Loki's theme with the TVA theme. Clock sounds were included since the concept of time was central to the series, and they appear in the TVA theme which Holt wanted to be "grand, almost like a religious experience" with "these huge swells of cords" and "ornaments and grand gestures", taking inspiration from "Ride of the Valkyries" by Richard Wagner. The theme has a "slightly grainy, faded [and] vintage-y sci-fi sound" to reflect the analog nature of the TVA, with Holt creating a "low-fi demo version" of the theme that was mainly synthesizers and had an analog tape sound that was kept for the opening title cards, while the full orchestral version of the theme was used for the end title sequence.

The Norwegian instruments, including the hardanger fiddle and stringed nyckelharpa, were used to represent Asgard and Loki's mother Frigga, as well as Sylvie's theme, which Holt described as "very dark, orchestral, driving, and murderous". Sylvie and Frigga's themes are connected, and Holt wanted to "feel that sense of past and sense of history and this emotional grounding" between the two. Frigga's theme was originally written on the violin, with Norwegian player Erik Rydvall aiding Holt by playing the theme on the hardanger fiddle and adding "some heart" and folk ornamentation. For Mobius, Holt listened to Bon Jovi and other 1990s rock music to create his "sound palette", while Renslayer's theme is "like a high organ" and is tied to Mobius's. Hunter B-15's theme was based in a drum rhythm, with Holt sampling her voice in various layers to create "this horrible sliding sound with this driving rhythm underneath it".

The score for the season was released digitally by Marvel Music and Hollywood Records in two volumes: music from the first three episodes was released on July 2, 2021, and music from the last three episodes was released on July 23. The first episode's end credits track "TVA" was released as a single on June 11.

Loki: Vol. 1 (Episodes 1–3) [Original Soundtrack]
No.	Title	Music	Length
1.	"TVA"		2:28
2.	"New York, 2012"		1:30
3.	"Gobi, 2012"		3:00
4.	"TVA First View"		1:06
5.	"Loki Green Theme"		2:24
6.	"Loki Processing"		2:16
7.	"Aix-En-Provence, 1549"		2:34
8.	"Miss Minutes"		2:00
9.	"Mischievous Scamp"		1:28
10.	"Dangerous Variant"		1:37
11.	"Frigga"		2:21
12.	"TVA Inner Workings"		1:48
13.	"DB Cooper"		1:35
14.	"Oshkosh, 1985"		1:53
15.	"Catch Up"		1:38
16.	"Jet Ski"		2:11
17.	"Glorious Purpose"		2:34
18.	"The Archives"		2:08
19.	"Salina, 1858"		1:39
20.	"Roxxcart, 2050"		2:06
21.	"I Miss Randy"		1:52
22.	"Reset Charges"		2:27
23.	"TVA Title Card"		1:38
24.	"Very Full" (featuring Tom Hiddleston)	Benedicte Maurseth and Erlend O. Nødtvedt	1:26
25.	"Lamentis-1, 2077"		1:54
Total length:	49:33
Loki: Vol. 2 (Episodes 4–6) [Original Soundtrack]
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Headless"	2:17
2.	"Temptation"	2:12
3.	"Pep Talk"	4:04
4.	"Wild"	4:05
5.	"Time Loop"	2:13
6.	"Lokius"	3:00
7.	"Alligator Bite"	3:11
8.	"God of Outcasts"	2:53
9.	"Reunion"	2:37
10.	"Secret Hide Out"	1:51
11.	"Goodbyes"	3:26
12.	"Living Storm"	2:18
13.	"Classic Builds" (includes elements of "Ride of the Valkyries" by Richard Wagner)	2:41
14.	"Time"	2:35
15.	"Pruned"	2:44
16.	"Ravonna's Mission"	2:07
17.	"B15's Memories"	1:24
18.	"Ohio, 2018"	2:55
19.	"Fibbed"	4:12
20.	"Stop"	3:17
21.	"Be"	4:58
22.	"Back in the TVA"	2:12
23.	"He Who Remains"	2:55
Total length:	66:17
Marketing
Select members of Disney's marketing team were given access to scripts and information on the season when it began filming to start crafting its marketing campaign based on its release date. Asad Ayaz, Walt Disney Studios marketing president, and his team worked closely with Feige, D'Esposito, Herron, and Waldron to determine what information would be part of the campaign, while coordinating around the efforts of previous Disney+ series that were releasing before Loki to give those their "fair time". A commercial for the season, The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, and WandaVision was shown during Super Bowl LIV. Julia Alexander of The Verge said the footage "wasn't much" but offered "enough glimpses to tease fans". Haleigh Foutch at Collider felt of all the Super Bowl commercials, Marvel's teasers "stole the whole show" and had "a lot to get excited about".

A trailer for the season was released during Disney Investor Day in December 2020. Writers for Polygon said Loki "finally feels untethered by the grounded approaches of the early Thor movies", and based on the content of the trailer and given the season deals with alternate realities, the season might try to "explain" certain phenomena such as Loki being D. B. Cooper or features worlds where urban legends such as the fictitious video game Polybius exist. John Boon writing for Entertainment Tonight called the trailer a "bonkers first look". /Film's Hoai-Tran Bui said the scenes in the trailer was "very intriguing, cryptic stuff" and was surprised to learn the season was more than "just the time-hopping series we assumed" and would deal "with mysterious conspiracies and reality-bending organizations".

A second trailer for the series was released on April 5, 2021. Charles Pulliam-Moore of io9 called the trailer "a large-scale, time-hopping adventure with the promise to be Disney+'s next big epic". Pulliam-Moore's colleague Jame Whitbrook said the trailer was "big on mystery" and was clearer than the first about the TVA's role in the series, but it was still unclear what Loki gained "beyond the chance to enact his own brand of chaos across an entire multiverse of timelines". Polygon's Austen Goslin said it appeared Loki would be visiting past memorable moments from MCU films, calling Loki "a sci-fi, reality-hopping, heist series". Bui felt this trailer gave a better understanding of how Loki would get involved with the TVA than the first trailer did.

A poster for the season was revealed in May 2021, which featured Loki, Mobius M. Mobius, Ravonna Lexus Renslayer, and Hunter B-15, as well as Miss Minutes, the animated anthropomorphic orange clock that is the TVA's mascot. Commentators were drawn to Miss Minutes, thinking it would be viewers' favorite new character, with /Film's Chris Evangelista loving the mascot despite its weirdness and not being convinced it was a clock. Erin Brady at Collider thought Miss Minutes could "try to steal Baby Yoda's thunder", while Adele Ankers of IGN believed the mascot was a hint towards the various realities the season would explore, despite not knowing what role Miss Minutes would have in the series. Two episodes of the series Marvel Studios: Legends were released on June 4, 2021, exploring Loki and the Tesseract using footage from their MCU film appearances. On July 9, a ceramic piece by João Lemos and the Viúva Lamego ceramic factory debuted in Marquês de Pombal Square in Lisbon. Crafting a campaign for a television series, rather a film's opening weekend, necessitated Ayaz and his team to be cognizant of spoilers in the lead up to Loki's release, while new marketing materials released post-episodes covered characters or moments revealed in the previous episode. In June 2021, The Simpsons short film The Good, the Bart, and the Loki was announced, which would release alongside "Journey into Mystery" on Disney+. The short sees Loki teaming up with Bart Simpson in a crossover that pays homage to the heroes and villains of the MCU. Hiddleston reprises his role as Loki in the short.

In January 2021, Marvel announced their "Marvel Must Haves" program, which reveals new toys, games, books, apparel, home decor, and other merchandise related to each episode of Loki following an episode's release. The first merchandise was revealed on June 7, 2021, which included Funko Pops, Marvel Legends figures, pins, apparel, and accessories for the series, while General Mills and Marvel announced that they would release 3,500 specially branded boxes of Lucky Charms cereal, titled "Loki Charms", on the same day as the series' release. The "Must Haves" merchandise for the episodes started on June 11 and concluded on July 16. Later in the month, Hyundai Motor Company released a commercial featuring Hiddleston as Loki promoting the series and the Hyundai Tucson. The commercial was produced by Marvel alongside similar commercials for WandaVision, The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, and What If...?, and was meant to tell an "in-world" story set within the narrative of the season. It received 2 million views within 24 hours of its release. With the release of each episode, Loki's appearance and costumes in Disneyland's Avengers Campus updated each week to reflect the events of the episode.

Release
Streaming
The first season debuted on Disney+ on June 9, 2021, and released weekly on Wednesdays, with the six-episode first season concluding on July 14. It is part of Phase Four of the MCU. It had previously been announced to debut in May 2021, before it was shifted to June 11, 2021, for releases on Friday, and then to two days before that.

Home media
The first season of Loki was released on Ultra HD Blu-ray and Blu-ray by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on September 26, 2023, with SteelBook packaging and concept art cards. Bonus features include "Designing the TVA" with Farahani and Hiddleston, along with a look at the second season; the Miss Minutes TVA orientation video; deleted scenes; a gag reel; and the season's Marvel Studios: Assembled documentary.

Reception
Audience viewership
Disney CEO Bob Chapek announced that "Glorious Purpose" was the most-watched series premiere for the streaming service in its opening week. Nielsen Media Research, who measure the number of minutes watched by United States audiences on television sets, listed Loki as the third-most watched original series across streaming services for the week of June 7–13, with "Glorious Purpose" accumulating 731 million minutes viewed, which was more than the premieres of The Falcon and the Winter Soldier (495million minutes) and WandaVision (434million). According to Samba TV, "For All Time. Always." was viewed in 1.9 million U.S. households from July 14–18, surpassing the finales of WandaVision (1.4 million) and The Falcon and the Winter Soldier (1.7 million). In May 2022, Feige announced that Loki was the most-watched Marvel Studios Disney+ series to date.

Critical response
Table info: ... ▼
Loki: Critical reception by episode
Loki (2021):Percentage of positive critics' reviews tracked by the website Rotten Tomatoes

Close ▲
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 92% approval rating with an average rating of 7.9/10, based on 332 reviews. The critical consensus reads, "A delightful diversion from the MCU as we know it, Loki successfully sees star Tom Hiddleston leap from beloved villain to endearing antihero—with a little help from Owen Wilson—in a series that's as off-kilter, charming, and vaguely dangerous as the demigod himself." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 74 out of 100 based on 32 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

For the series' first two episodes, reviewers highlighted the banter and relationship between Hiddleston's Loki and Wilson's Mobius. The various design elements of Loki, particularly the production design from Kasra Farahani and the cinematography from Autumn Durald Arkapaw, were also praised.

TVLine's Matt Webb Mitovitch gave the first two episodes a "B+". He felt Hiddleston "effortlessly slips back" into this version of Loki and explained that the banter between Hiddleston and Wilson was "a significant upgrade from what Falcon and Winter Soldier believed it was doing". Mitovitch concluded that once the premise has been established, Loki gets "very fun", with each episode "building to a tantalizing, two-pronged reveal... that opens up all kinds of possibilities" for the remainder of the series. Daniel Fienberg of The Hollywood Reporter said in his review, "After two episodes, Loki is at a tipping point. Having set everything up to an exhausting degree, things could be lined up to get really entertaining – if not zany in a Rick and Morty way, perhaps fun in some of the timeline rupture-of-the-week ways [of] The CW's Legends of Tomorrow... Or Loki might just be a lot of Hiddleston and Wilson talking, which might still be engaging for six episodes." Nick Allen, reviewing for RogerEbert.com, called Loki "an exciting and genuinely inspired addition to Marvel storytelling, one that spins off and rockets its complicated villain into original territory with the help of time travel" adding the series was "bound to be a sci-fi gem".

Reviewing the first two episodes for Variety, Caroline Framke was more reserved on how successful the series would be, feeling the "dense" first episode had a lot of ground to cover, while the second "was far more engaging" and able to have more fun, ending on a tease of "an intriguing new direction", though she cautioned that the series may ultimately not "deviate from the usual script". Giving the episodes a "C", Ben Travers at IndieWire felt the series was "any movie or TV show where a criminal is enlisted by the authorities to help solve a difficult case" with little story progress made over the first two episodes, instead using "exhausting" explanations. He added, "Loki isn't really about Loki, so much as it's about introducing the TVA, the logistics of time travel, and how the MCU's Phase 4 timeline will end up with a Multiverse of Madness".

Holt's score for the series was also widely praised, with Jillian Unrau of GameRant stating Holt "has done an outstanding job in making the music complement the story, as well as be iconic on its own".

In her review for the final episode of the season, Caroline Siede at The A.V. Club felt the series had been "both unpredictable and weirdly straightforward; bold in its game-changing moves yet inconsequential in so many of its narrative choices". Giving the season an 8 out of 10, Simon Cardy of IGN said compared to the previous two Marvel Studios series which were "more introspective pieces", Loki took viewers "to new places to meet new people; not only making for an enjoyable watch in its own right, but also providing excitement through the promise of what's to come". Cardy praised Hiddleston's performance, noting playing the 2012 version of the character "makes for a more entertaining centerpiece", as well as praising Wilson and Di Martino for their roles and chemistry with Hiddleston, and highlighting Arkapaw's cinematography. In his review of the season, The Verge's Andrew Webster explained that Loki made him "forget about the rest of the Marvel Cinematic Universe" since it was "an excellent piece of science fiction" that was the most standalone entry of the MCU to date, believing it was a good entry point to the MCU since it is "the best of what the superhero genre has to offer without all of the homework". Webster also praised the cast who all looked like they were "having a lot of fun", mentioning that "Hiddleston adds a depth to Loki that we haven't seen yet... and he has a magnetic chemistry with both Wilson and Di Martino".

Analysis
Ahead of the series' release, Sam Barsanti at The A.V. Club noted how the potential for various alternate versions of Loki to appear in the series and continue on in the MCU was "a smart way to maintain Loki's presence in the MCU without worrying about keeping Hiddleston under contract or having to continue explaining that this Loki—even though he's played by Hiddleston—is not the same Loki that got killed by Thanos", and would follow suit with WandaVision and The Falcon and the Winter Soldier both revealing new incarnations of existing heroes. Barsanti was excited by the prospect of potentially seeing Old Man Loki (rumored at the time to be played by Grant), the heroic Kid Loki (who could be another potential member of the Young Avengers team that Marvel Studios had been teasing) and in particular, Lady Loki (rumored as Di Martino's role). Since Lady Loki is "generally more of an unrepentant villain than other Lokis", it would be a way for Marvel Studios to update the Loki character and have them be a villain without "[negating] the growth that Hiddleston's Loki went through". Writing for The Verge, Chaim Gartenberg believed heading into the series that Loki felt like "a capital-S Spinoff" more so than WandaVision and The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, both of which served as lead ins to feature films. As such, being somewhat more disconnected could allow Marvel the opportunity to "make a more standalone series that can actually be a good TV show", believing like in the comics, standalone stories sometimes produce the better stories than "the 1,000-issue epics".

After the first episode, Richard Newby at The Hollywood Reporter believed the series was promising a "grand expansion" of MCU lore that would "supersede anything Marvel Studios has ever attempted with a single [MCU] entry" stating Loki felt "cosmically big, yet at the same time, [still] deeply personal". Particular lore items Newby was keen to keep an eye on were Nexus Points, that could have connections to WandaVision, and how those could lead to the creations of multiverses, and the multiversal war, which could be a reference to a future Secret Wars-type event that would "rewrite reality" and "make the quest for the Infinity Stones seem small in comparison".

Ben Child of The Guardian criticized Loki's return as part of a pattern of MCU characters making appearances after their onscreen deaths, citing characters' returns from the Blip, the return of Natasha Romanoff in the prequel Black Widow, and the appearance of versions of Vision in WandaVision, saying it "spoil[s] the gorgeous pathos of all those death scenes" and that "all bets are off with future resurrection methods".

Following "The Nexus Event", which saw the Time-Keepers revealed to be animatronics and Loki appear on a desolate world with other Loki variants after being pruned, Newby opined that the Beyonder and Battleworld could factor into the series. Adam B. Vary and Mónica Marie Zorrilla of Variety disagreed with Newby, pointing out that, with Marvel Studios' previous series, they did not weave "complicated, brand new characters as central figures" such as the Beyonder this late into a series. The pair did believe Kang the Conqueror could be a factor, since the character "[made] sense from the comics... [and] for the MCU" as he had stronger ties to elements of Loki, such as a relationship with Ravonna in the comics, and would be appearing in Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania portrayed by Majors. A variant of Kang appears in the final episode, He Who Remains, also portrayed by Majors. Newby noted how this time the fan theories panned out, but with "an unexpected twist". Knowing Majors would also be appearing as Kang, Newby was excited by Majors's "unique chance... to play different versions of one character, each potentially more frightening than the last". David Opie of Digital Spy criticized the introduction of He Who Remains, saying it "came completely out of nowhere" for non-comics readers, despite conceding that the speculation surrounding the character's appearance was correct.

Accolades
Table info: Award, Date(s) of ceremony, Category, Recipie... ▼
AWARD	DATE(S) OF CEREMONY	CATEGORY	RECIPIENT(S)	RESULT	REF.
Dragon Awards	September 5, 2021	Best Science Fiction or Fantasy TV Series	Loki	Nominated
Harvey Awards	October 8, 2021	Best Adaptation from Comic Book/Graphic Novel	Loki	Nominated
World Soundtrack Awards	October 23, 2021	TV Composer of the Year	Natalie Holt	Nominated
Hollywood Music in Media Awards	November 17, 2021	Score – TV Show/Limited Series	Natalie Holt	Nominated
Hollywood Professional Association Awards	November 18, 2021	Outstanding Visual Effects – Episodic (Under 13 Episodes) or Non-theatrical Feature	Dan DeLeeuw, David Seager, Alexandra Greene, George Kuruvilla, Dan Mayer (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
People's Choice Awards	December 7, 2021	Show of 2021	Loki	Won
Male TV Star of 2021	Tom Hiddleston	Won
Bingeworthy Show of 2021	Loki	Nominated
Sci-Fi/Fantasy Show of 2021	Nominated
Screen Actors Guild Awards	February 27, 2022	Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Comedy or Drama Series	Loki	Nominated
Art Directors Guild Awards	March 5, 2022	Excellence in Production Design for a One-Hour Period or Fantasy Single-Camera Series	Kasra Farahani (for "Glorious Purpose")	Won
Visual Effects Society	March 8, 2022	Outstanding Visual Effects in a Photoreal Episode	Dan DeLeeuw, Allison Paul, Sandra Balej, David Seager (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
Outstanding Virtual Cinematography in a CG Project	"Race to the Ark" – Jesse Lewis-Evans, Luke Avery, Autumn Durald Arkapaw, Scott Inkster (for "Lamentis")	Nominated
Outstanding Effects Simulations in an Episode, Commercial, or Real-Time Project	"Alioth Cloud" – George Kuruvilla, Menno Dijkstra, Matthew Hanger, Jiyong Shin (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
Outstanding Compositing and Lighting in an Episode	"Shuroo City Destruction" – Paul Chapman, Tom Truscott, Biagio Figliuzzi, Attila Szalma (for "Lamentis")	Won
Costume Designers Guild Awards	March 9, 2022	Excellence in Sci-Fi/Fantasy Television	Christine Wada (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
MPSE Golden Reel Awards	March 13, 2022	Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Limited Series or Anthology	Various (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
Critics' Choice Super Awards	March 17, 2022	Best Superhero Series	Loki	Nominated
Best Actor in a Superhero Series	Tom Hiddleston	Won
Best Actress in a Superhero Series	Sophia Di Martino	Nominated
Gugu Mbatha-Raw	Nominated
Best Villain in a Series	Jonathan Majors	Nominated
Writers Guild of America Awards	March 20, 2022	Drama Series	Bisha K. Ali, Elissa Karasik, Eric Martin, Michael Waldron	Nominated
New Series	Nominated
Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards	April 9, 2022	Favorite Family TV Show	Loki	Nominated
Favorite Male TV Star (Family)	Tom Hiddleston	Won
British Academy Television Craft Awards	April 24, 2022	Best Original Music	Natalie Holt	Nominated
ASCAP Composers' Choice Awards	May 2, 2022	Television Score of the Year	Natalie Holt	Nominated
Television Theme of the Year	Nominated
MTV Movie & TV Awards	June 5, 2022	Best Show	Loki	Nominated
Breakthrough Performance	Sophia Di Martino	Won
Best Team	Tom Hiddleston, Sophia Di Martino and Owen Wilson	Won
Set Decorators Society of America Awards	August 2, 2022	Best Achievement in Décor/Design of a One Hour Fantasy or Science Fiction Series	Claudia Bonfe and Kasra Farahani	Nominated
Hollywood Critics Association TV Awards	August 14, 2022	Best Streaming Series, Drama	Loki	Nominated
Best Actor in a Streaming Series, Drama	Tom Hiddleston	Nominated
Best Supporting Actress in a Streaming Series, Drama	Sophia Di Martino	Nominated
Best Supporting Actor in a Streaming Series, Drama	Owen Wilson	Nominated
Best Writing in a Streaming Series, Drama	Michael Waldron (for "Glorious Purpose")	Nominated
Best Directing in a Streaming Series, Drama	Kate Herron (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
Dorian Awards	August 17, 2022	Most Visually Striking Show	Loki	Nominated
Hugo Awards	September 4, 2022	Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form	Eric Martin, Kate Herron, Michael Waldron (for "The Nexus Event")	Nominated
Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards	September 3–4, 2022	Outstanding Production Design for a Narrative Contemporary Program (One Hour or More)	Kasra Farahani, Natasha Gerasimova, and Claudia Bonfe (for "Glorious Purpose")	Nominated
Outstanding Cinematography for a Single-Camera Series (One Hour)	Autumn Durald Arkapaw (for "Lamentis")	Nominated
Outstanding Fantasy/Sci-Fi Costumes	Christine Wada, Nora Pederson, Tamsin Costello, and Carol Beadle (for "Glorious Purpose")	Nominated
Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Original Dramatic Score)	Natalie Holt (for "Glorious Purpose")	Nominated
Outstanding Original Main Title Theme Music	Natalie Holt	Nominated
Outstanding Sound Editing for a Comedy or Drama Series (One-Hour)	Various (for "Journey into Mystery")	Nominated
Saturn Awards	October 25, 2022	Best Fantasy Series (Streaming)	Loki	Won
Best Actor in a Streaming Series	Tom Hiddleston	Nominated
Best Guest Performance in a Streaming Series	Jonathan Majors	Nominated
Close ▲
By April 2022, Marvel Studios and Disney had decided to submit Loki in the various drama series categories for the Primetime Emmy Awards, rather than in the limited series categories. Disney had previously planned to submit the series in the limited series categories along with Hawkeye and Moon Knight. Clayton Davis at Variety noted that the reveal of a second season in the post-credits scene of the season one finale and the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences rules for entering a series in the limited series categories left the studios with "no other choice" than to submit in the drama or comedy categories, choosing the drama ones, which Davis felt was "the smarter choice".

Documentary special
Main article: Marvel Studios: Assembled
In February 2021, the documentary series Marvel Studios: Assembled was announced. The special on this series, Assembled: The Making of Loki, goes behind the scenes of the making of the season, featuring Waldron, Herron, Hiddleston, Mbatha-Raw, Mosaku, Wilson, Di Martino, Oparei, Grant, and Majors. The special was released on Disney+ on July 21, 2021, and will be included as part of the season's home media release on September 26, 2023.

Notes
References
External links
Loki
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Loki (season 2)
Season of television series / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Time Variance Authority
List of Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
Loki (TV series)
Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:
Can you list the top facts and stats about Loki (season 2)?

Summarize this article for a 10 years old

SHOW ALL QUESTIONS
The second season of the American television series Loki, based on Marvel Comics featuring the character of the same name, sees Loki working with Mobius M. Mobius, Hunter B-15, and other members of the Time Variance Authority (TVA) to navigate the multiverse in order to find Sylvie, Ravonna Renslayer, and Miss Minutes. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), sharing continuity with the films of the franchise. The season is produced by Marvel Studios, with Eric Martin serving as head writer and Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead leading the directing team.

Quick facts: Loki, Starring, Country of origin, No. of epi... ▼
Close ▲
Tom Hiddleston reprises his role as Loki from the film series, starring alongside Sophia Di Martino (Sylvie), Wunmi Mosaku (Hunter B-15), Eugene Cordero, Neil Ellice, Owen Wilson (Mobius), Gugu Mbatha-Raw (Renslayer), Tara Strong (Miss Minutes), and Jonathan Majors reprising their roles from the first season, alongside Rafael Casal, Kate Dickie, Liz Carr, Ke Huy Quan, and Richard Dixon. Development on a second season had begun by November 2020, and was confirmed in July 2021, with Martin, Benson, and Moorhead all hired by late February 2022. Filming began in June 2022 at Pinewood Studios and concluded in October. Dan DeLeeuw and Kasra Farahani were revealed as additional directors for the season in June 2023.

The second season debuted on Disney+ on October 5, 2023, and will run for six episodes until November 9, as part of Phase Five of the MCU.

Episodes
Table info: No.overall, No. inseason, Title, Directed by ... ▼
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by:19–20	Written by	Original release date
7	1	"Ouroboros"	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin	October5,2023
In the past, the Time Variance Authority (TVA) attempts to apprehend Loki while he is uncontrollably warping across time in their headquarters. In the present, Loki reunites with Mobius M. Mobius and warns him of the threat posed by the many variants of He Who Remains, the TVA's creator. Concurrently, TVA General Dox has several TVA hunters arm themselves, ostensibly to find Sylvie, who caused the Sacred Timeline to branch after killing He Who Remains. Loki and Mobius meet TVA technician Ouroboros, who deduces that Loki is "time slipping", a phenomenon possibly caused by branching timelines dangerously overloading the Temporal Loom. To save Loki, Ouroboros instructs Mobius to approach the Temporal Loom with the Temporal Aura Extractor device to extract Loki from the time stream as Loki prunes himself. Loki time slips to the future, where the TVA is being evacuated as the Loom goes critical, he encounters Sylvie before he is pruned by someone at the last minute. In the present, Mobius successfully pulls Loki from the time stream, and they set out to find Sylvie. In a mid-credits scene, Sylvie enters a branched timeline in Broxton, Oklahoma, 1982 and visits a McDonald's restaurant.
8	2	"Breaking Brad"	Dan DeLeeuw	Eric Martin	October12,2023
Loki, Mobius, and Hunter B-15 find and capture Hunter X-5 in London, 1977 on the Sacred Timeline, where he lives as film actor Brad Wolfe. Under interrogation, he admits to abandoning Dox's mission and reveals Sylvie's location. Meanwhile, Ouroboros attempts to repair the Loom to safely accommodate the branching timelines, but discovers he cannot access it without help from the missing Miss Minutes or He Who Remains's aura. Loki, Mobius and Wolfe travel to Oklahoma and find Sylvie working in a McDonald's. Loki tells her of their encounter in the TVA's future and asks for her assistance to figure out what would happen, but Sylvie refuses to involve herself with the organization. After Wolfe proclaims the group is in mortal danger, Sylvie enchants him, forcing him to reveal Dox's plan to simultaneously destroy the branching timelines with reset charges. Sending Wolfe back into custody, Loki, Mobius, and Sylvie capture Dox, but her plan has largely succeeded and some of her loyalists have escaped. As TVA receptionist Casey tracks the rogue Ravonna Renslayer's TemPad on one of the remaining branching timelines, Sylvie declares that the TVA is rotten and returns to McDonald's with He Who Remains's TemPad in her possession.
9	3	"1893"	Kasra Farahani	Teleplay by: Eric Martin and Kasra Farahani & Jason O'Leary
Story by: Eric Martin	October19,2023
Miss Minutes and Renslayer travel to Chicago, 1868 to secretly drop the TVA Guidebook to a young Victor Timely, a variant of He Who Remains, who informed Miss Minutes about this plan before his death. They then travel to 1893 at the Chicago World's Fair on this branched timeline, where Loki and Mobius arrive tracking Renslayer's TemPad. There, they see Timely presenting his Temporal Loom prototype. Timely then has four groups chasing him: Loki and Mobius, who want to use his aura to fix the Loom; Renslayer and Miss Minutes, who want him to take his variant's place with them at his side; Sylvie, who wants to kill him to prevent his rise to power; and a robber baron and his allies wanting revenge against Timely's fake invention scam. Timely escapes the fair with Renslayer and Miss Minutes, although Miss Minutes convinces Timely to abandon Renslayer. At Timely's Wisconsin laboratory, he turns Miss Minutes off after she professes romantic love for him. Renslayer, Loki, Mobius, and Sylvie arrive, with Sylvie gaining control. Seeing Timely's fear, Sylvie allows Loki to take him back to the TVA, then sends Renslayer to the Citadel at the End of Time with Miss Minutes being brought along. They see He Who Remains' decaying corpse as Miss Minutes reveals that she knows a secret about Renslayer.
10	4	"Heart of the TVA"	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin and Katharyn Blair	October26,2023
Miss Minutes reveals that in the past, Renslayer commanded He Who Remains' army; he proposed that Renslayer lead the TVA with him, then had Miss Minutes erase the memories of Renslayer and other TVA employees. As the Temporal Loom reaches catastrophic failure, Loki and his allies attempt to use Timely and Ouroboros's Throughput Multiplier to fix it. It is revealed that the source of Ouroboros's knowledge is Timely himself, creating an ontological paradox. Renslayer and Miss Minutes attempt to take over the TVA, approaching the detained Wolfe, Dox and her loyalists for help. Only Wolfe agrees; Dox and her loyalists instead choose to be crushed to death by Miss Minutes. Wolfe prunes Hunter D-90 and kidnaps Timely. While staging a rescue, Sylvie and Loki encounter his time-slipping past self; Loki prunes his past self. Ouroboros deactivates Miss Minutes and the TVA's magic-suppressing devices. This enables Sylvie to enchant Wolfe, controlling him to prune Renslayer. Timely is rescued and is able to restore access to the Temporal Loom, but the Loom's increased temporal radiation spaghettifies him before he can launch the Throughput Multiplier. The Temporal Loom explodes, and the blast wave spreads toward Loki, Mobius, Sylvie, B-15, Casey, and Ouroboros in the TVA.
11	5	TBA	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin	November2,2023
12	6	TBA	Justin Benson & Aaron Moorhead	Eric Martin	November9,2023
Close ▲
Cast and characters
Tom Hiddleston as Loki:
Thor's adopted brother and the god of mischief, based on the Norse mythological deity of the same name. He is an alternate, "time variant" version of Loki who created a new timeline in Avengers: Endgame (2019) beginning in 2012. He is time slipping, being pulled through time between the past, present, and future. Hiddleston said the season sees Loki "understanding himself", having found this new Time Variance Authority (TVA) family and his "new capacity to make connections", with the character finally finding a meaning and purpose in trying to help protect the TVA and his friends there.
Sophia Di Martino as Sylvie:
A variant of Loki who broke the timeline through killing He Who Remains in a misguided act of revenge. The season sees Sylvie working as a cashier at a McDonald's in a branched timeline, in 1982 Broxton, Oklahoma.
Wunmi Mosaku as Hunter B-15:
A high-ranking Hunter of the TVA. Following the branching of the timeline, she is working to reform the TVA and protect the new timelines and variants, given she has learned she is variant herself.:4
Eugene Cordero as Casey: A TVA receptionist.
Rafael Casal as Hunter X-5 / Brad Wolfe:
A TVA Hunter with a close connection to General Dox. Casal called Hunter X-5 "Loki's mirror—another person who feels wronged. He's a bit of a lost character and almost feels like an earlier version of Loki, reflecting back to him.":9 Director Dan DeLeeuw called X-5 "more of a straight villain, more of a heavy; a foil for Loki". Executive producer Kevin Wright spoke to X-5's relationship to Dox, noting it had a "maternal" quality, but questioned how much of that was because of their past lives, or "institutionalized from being in the TVA". X-5 finds his real life on the Sacred Timeline and becomes the actor Brad Wolfe. DeLeeuw thought Casal "brought an interesting humanity" to his portrayal of Wolfe, explaining that it was his choice to become Wolfe to break free from the TVA being X-5's reality. As well, the creative team "couldn't resist" having a character who no longer believed in the reality of the TVA becoming an actor, given Wolfe now "puts on a perception of reality for a living".
Kate Dickie as General Dox: A TVA general who is part of the new council of judges following Renslayer's disappearance. She is searching for Sylvie and still believes in the TVA's mission to prune branched timelines.
Liz Carr as Judge Gamble: A paraplegic TVA judge who is part of the council.
Neil Ellice as Hunter D-90: A TVA Hunter.
Ke Huy Quan as Ouroboros:
A TVA technician who works in its Repairs and Advancement Department. Described as the "quirky repair guy", Wright explained that every piece of technology at the TVA was either designed by Ouroboros or he knows how to fix it and keep it operational. Quan felt Ouroboros was thrilled to be doing his job, despite working long hours alone in isolation. Introducing the character in the season was meant to highlight other parts of the TVA not seen in the first season to show how "massive" the organization was.
Owen Wilson as Mobius M. Mobius: An agent of the TVA and friend of Loki. Wilson said that the season explores more of Mobius' past and sees him struggling to accept a new reality, with the character losing some of his control and becoming more vulnerable.
Gugu Mbatha-Raw as Ravonna Renslayer: A former TVA judge who has gone missing and has connections to He Who Remains.
Tara Strong as Miss Minutes: The animated anthropomorphic AI clock mascot of the TVA created by He Who Remains who is in love with him and jealous of Renslayer. Natasha Arancini acts as the on-set stand-in for Miss Minutes.
Richard Dixon as Robber Baron: An industrialist who purchases a faulty invention from Victor Timely at the 1893 Chicago's World's Fair.
Jonathan Majors as Victor Timely and He Who Remains: Variants of Kang the Conqueror.
Victor Timely is an industrialist and inventor in 1893 on a branched timeline who has created an early version of the Temporal Loom. He has a stutter and an awkward, timid personality, and acts as a con man selling others his creations. Discussing the contrasting personality of Timely to other Kang variants, Wright said it was "fun" to have Timely be "sort of an eccentric, quiet inventor that maybe is, like, a bit out of time and out of place" rather than the expectation of the next Kang variant to appear in the MCU to be "some sci-fi villain from the future". Marvel Studios was excited to continue exploring Kang and his variants in the season, particularly wanting Timely for Loki, with Wright noting his inclusion and integration would be "a big part" of the season. Nasri Thompson portrays a young Timely.
He Who Remains is a scientist from the 31st century who ended the first multiversal war by destroying "evil variants" of himself and created the TVA to prevent a new multiverse from forming and to keep his variants from coming back into existence.
Production
Development
Loki star Tom Hiddleston and executive producer Kevin Wright began having conversations during production of the season one episode "Lamentis" regarding "how this world could build out" to "dive deeper into it". Development on a second season had begun by November 2020. In January 2021, the first season's head writer Michael Waldron signed an overall deal with Disney which included his involvement in the second season of Loki. Marvel Studios producer Nate Moore, who served as an executive producer on the series The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, believed Loki had "really irreverent and clever and cool" storylines that lent to the series having multiple seasons rather than being a one-off event. The second season was confirmed through a mid-credits scene in the first-season finale, which was released in July 2021, and Hiddleston said "deep discussions" about the second season were already underway. First season director Kate Herron said she would not return for the second season as she had always planned to only be involved for one season, while Waldron said it "remain[ed] to be seen" if he would be involved.

In February 2022, the directing duo Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead were hired to direct a majority of the episodes for the second season. They previously directed two episodes of another Marvel Studios series, Moon Knight (2022), which went so well that the studio wanted them to work on other projects and they were quickly chosen for the second season of Loki. Marvel Studios' Kevin Feige had approached the duo while they were working on additional photography for Moon Knight to have them meet with Wright and Hiddleston to discuss coming on board for the season. Eric Martin, a first-season writer who took over some of Waldron's duties during production on that season, was set to write all six episodes of the second season, with Hiddleston and Waldron confirmed to be returning as executive producers. Benson and Moorhead were excited to approach another character in Loki who, like Moon Knight's Marc Spector / Moon Knight, was defined by being an outcast and had "complexity in being [an] outcast". Pre-production had begun by the end of April 2022. Dan DeLeeuw, a visual effects supervisor and second unit director on several MCU films, and season one production designer Kasra Farahani were revealed as directors in June 2023; they each directed one episode of the season, with Benson and Moorhead directing the other four.:19–20 DeLeeuw was chosen to direct given his past work directing second units for Marvel Studios, as well as his approach to character in the visual effects reviews of season one, and Farahani, being a writer and director, was chosen because he "really understood the world and helped build it". Wright said both "were steady hands who knew this world and these characters". Executive producers for the season include Marvel Studios' Feige, Stephen Broussard, Louis D'Esposito, Victoria Alonso, Brad Winderbaum, and Wright, alongside Hiddleston, Benson and Moorhead, Martin, and Waldron.

Writing
Farahani, Jason O'Leary, and Katharyn Blair served as writers on the season alongside Martin, with Farahani acting as a staff writer for the season. Waldron said the season would continue the story of the first season but in a way that felt different, subverted expectations, and explored "new emotional ground" for Loki. Hiddleston explained that Loki is once again with the Time Variance Authority (TVA) and working with Mobius M. Mobius, despite Mobius not remembering Loki, and has confronted Sylvie about her actions at the end of the first season. He added that the second season would be "a battle for the soul of the TVA". More of the TVA's history is explored in the season. Wright explained that much of the "core character conflict" in the season came from the TVA and each's relationship to it, stating, "We want everybody to be in the gray area — they're neither good nor bad. They might make bad choices or heroic choices, but they are trying to figure out who they are. The TVA felt like the place where we could maximize that storytelling and learn more about those characters through that." Much of the season was about each character becoming the best versions of themselves. Wright stated that the creatives wanted to push the weirdness of the series further in the second season, while still keeping the longer, character-driven moments, notably the friendship between Loki and Mobius. The writers took caution to not start the season by "fast-forwarding through the drama" from the end of the first season, but to sit with and explore Loki and Sylvie's "emotional turmoil" they have entering the season. The season will help connect the entire Multiverse Saga of the MCU.

Following the end of filming the season one finale, "For All Time. Always", executive producer Kevin R. Wright and actress Sophia Di Martino began an informal discussion of Sylvie's future, with Di Martino thinking she would be hungry after the death of He Who Remains concluded her long revenge mission. As development on the second season began, Wright felt that having Sylvie visit a 1980s McDonald's would be "appealing" for her as a place to "slow down", being drawn to that location based on the nostalgia a young child had going there after a sporting event or for a birthday party, which Sylvie never experienced. The 1982 McDonald's location was written into the script before approaching the company, a reverse of the typical brand partnerships in media, with Wright thinking McDonald's would view the inclusion as trying to make fun of them rather than the "earnest story [and] love letter" they were creating. Marvel Studios had an existing marketing partnership with McDonald's, with the restaurant also looking to collaborate with brands beyond the typical product tie-in, leading to McDonald's approving its inclusion in the season. McDonald's global chief marketing officer Morgan Flatley believed Sylvie's story aligned with their brand of "providing comfort and familiarity". The McDonald's is located in Broxton, Oklahoma, which was chosen as "a tip of the hat to fans", given it was the location of Asgard in the comics in the late 2000s and early 2010s, and "a little bit of a nod to the DNA" of Sylvie, since she is partially based on Sylvie Lushton who was from Broxton in the comics. The season also visits 1970s London and the 1893 Chicago World's Fair.

Discussing the various time "jargon" and "timey-wimey" logic introduced the season, Wright explained that although long, detailed versions were created to work from, these were eventually condensed and simplified in order to make it easier for the audience to understand and follow along, conceding that "simplicity and visuals" make it "fun and intriguing". According to Martin, the themes of the season were order versus chaos and "what happens in a power vacuum", likening the season's overarching concept to the phrase "you break it, you buy it".

Casting
Hiddleston, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Wunmi Mosaku, Eugene Cordero, Tara Strong, Owen Wilson, and Sophia Di Martino return from the first season as Loki, Ravonna Renslayer, Hunter B-15, Casey, Miss Minutes, Mobius M. Mobius, and Sylvie, respectively. Jonathan Majors also returns in the season as He Who Remains, while also portraying an additional variant of Kang the Conqueror, who he played in the film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023), named Victor Timely; Timely was also introduced at the end of Quantumania, appearing in that film's mid-credits scene. Director Peyton Reed stated that the usage of the scene had felt natural due to the MCU's focus on multiversal stories, and the fact that the season and film were being concurrently developed. Majors was expected to appear in around half of the season's episodes. Neil Ellice also returns as Hunter D-90. Cordero and Ellice were made series regulars for the season. In May 2022, Feige stated that the "whole cast" would return from the first season.

In July 2022, Rafael Casal was confirmed to be cast in a "major role" in the season, TVA Hunter X-5 and the actor Brad Wolfe. In September, Ke Huy Quan was revealed to have been cast as TVA agent and technician Ouroboros "O. B.". Casting director Sarah Halley Finn suggested Quan for the series after seeing an early screening of his film Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022), with Marvel working quickly to offer him a part ahead of that film's wide release in April 2022, knowing it would result in Quan receiving many additional acting offers. Feige also personally reached out to Quan about accepting the role, not knowing that he was already a fan of the MCU and Loki's first season in particular. In December 2022, Kate Dickie was revealed to have been cast in the villain role of General Dox. Liz Carr also stars as Judge Gamble, while Richard Dixon stars as Robber Baron.

Design
Farahani also returned as production designer for the season. He described the new areas of the TVA seen in the season as the "foundation" of the organization, believing they would have been built earlier than the locations seen in season one. These new locations had "more of a cold war, 1950s aesthetic" featuring "understated, muted greens", though the yellow and orange colors established in the first season are still present as accents.:9–10 New sets for the season included O. B.'s work area, the temporal core, and the 1893 Chicago World's Fair, with Wright believing that set was larger than the one built for Lamentis in the first season. Christine Wada returned as costume designer, noting character's costumes were still "anchored" to the TVA's design, even when they venture outside the TVA.:10 She felt Sylvie's costume in the season was one of the more difficult to create, noting her acid wash jeans had to be printed in order to have multiple versions since they could not be bought given the variation in acid wash patterns between different eras. Additionally, Sylvie's herringbone jacket "took forever to get [tonally right]" as Wada wanted it to have a stealth quality to fit with the character and not be "too contrasty" and "bump in other eras". Quan suggested to Wada that O. B.'s TVA jumpsuit have various patches on it, as a reference to his character Data in The Goonies (1985).

Filming
Principal photography began on June 13, 2022, at Pinewood Studios in the United Kingdom, with Benson and Moorhead directing four episodes, and Dan DeLeeuw and Kasra Farahani directing one each.:2 Isaac Bauman serves as cinematographer for the majority of the season,:2 with Oliver Loncraine doing so for the second episode of the season.:2 Bauman created a 700-page document for the look of the season. It was previously reported to begin in January 2022, under the working title Architect. Much of the same crew and department heads that worked on season one in Atlanta were retained for the season's shoot in London. Ahead of shooting, all the directors, writers, and actors took two weeks to read through and rehearse each of the scripts in order to improve upon them before filming began.

In July 2022, location filming occurred throughout London, and at the Chatham Historic Dockyard in Kent. The 1982 McDonald's location was filmed in a former restaurant building in England, with Marvel Studios working with McDonald's archivist and historian Mike Bullington to ensure the set decorations were as accurate as possible. The company sent six pieces of restaurant equipment, such as cash registers and straw dispensers, to England for use on the set. Bullington suggested a drive-through be built at the set location, given they had become a popular feature of McDonald's restaurants at that time following their introduction in 1975. Filming concluded in October. The budget for pre-production and filming was $141.3 million.

Post-production
Wright stated the season was the first Marvel Studios project to not undergo any additional photography. As such, Majors' appearance in the season was not altered given his legal issues that began in March 2023, with Wright feeling it would have been "hasty to do anything" without knowing his legal outcome. Calum Ross, Emma McCleave, and Paul Zucker return from the first season as editors.:2 Visual effects were provided by Framestore, Trixter, Industrial Light & Magic, Rising Sun Pictures, FuseFX, and Cantina Creative. Christopher Townsend serves as the visual effects supervisor.

Music
Natalie Holt was set to return from the first season as the composer by July 2022, and planned to begin scoring the season in late 2022.

Loki: Season 2 – Vol. 1 (Episodes 1–3) [Original Soundtrack]
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Burden of Wisdom"	2:06
2.	"Face Through the Wall"	3:14
3.	"O.B."	2:23
4.	"Slip in Time"	1:47
5.	"Temporal Loom"	2:08
6.	"Origins 1868"	1:10
7.	"Evacuate TVA"	1:36
8.	"One Shot"	2:51
9.	"The Architect (Demo)"	1:40
10.	"Zaniac"	1:56
11.	"Jet Ski Whisper"	1:31
12.	"Tricks"	1:48
13.	"Ready for Round Two"	2:03
14.	"Q&A"	4:26
15.	"Minute Men Attack"	2:16
16.	"Those Were Lives"	2:07
17.	"Golden Olden"	0:44
18.	"Chicago 1892"	1:56
19.	"Time to Go"	2:29
20.	"You"	2:04
21.	"Your Girl"	2:05
22.	"Giant Clock"	0:41
23.	"Not the Man You Think"	2:41
24.	"Delivery"	1:31
25.	"Requiem for All Time"	2:54
Total length:	52:07
Marketing
Hiddleston, Di Martino, and Wilson shared footage from the season at the 2022 D23 Expo along with announcing Quan's casting. The first trailer was released on July 31, 2023. Charles Pulliam-Moore from The Verge compared Loki's time-slipping to the visual effects of the Spider-Verse films, and noted that the trailer gave a good overview of what the supporting TVA cast would be dealing with in the season. Pulliam-Moore also highlighted Loki's dialogue with Sylvie about being gods and believed Majors' role in the season would elicit a lot of discussion upon its release. Brad Lang at Comic Book Resources felt the trailer "promises another multiversal adventure" for the season with bigger stakes. The Hollywood Reporter's Aaron Couch felt Majors' inclusion in the trailer "answers a question about how Disney would market the show" amidst the actor's legal issues. Chris McPherson writing for Collider said it was "surprising" to see Majors featured in the trailer, while James Whitbrook at Gizmodo felt that the trailer had "smartly" minimized Majors' presence. Similarly, Screen Rant's Molly Freeman and Simon Gallagher had also felt Majors' minimal presence was appropriate, with the trailer instead focused on introducing the concept of time slipping. The trailer debuted to 80 million views, which was the most ever for a Disney+ series.

Additional footage was released on September 4, 2023, with Fay Watson from Total Film excited by the tease of a team-up between Loki and Sylvie. Footage from the first episode was shown at Disney's D23 event in early September 2023. Two episodes of the series Marvel Studios: Legends were released on September 29, 2023, exploring Variants and the TVA. A promotional poster for the series was noted for its potential use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Various creatives noted the artifacts apparent in the poster, which can sometimes be left behind by AI-image generators. The background spiral clock image of the poster was noted for being similar to one available on Shutterstock that was not tagged as being AI-generated, though when the image was scanned by AI-image checkers it was flagged as being AI-generated.

Quick facts: External video... ▼
Close ▲
In August 2023, McDonald's created new packaging for their sweet and sour dipping sauce, inspired by the season. This was part of their limited-edition "As Featured In" meal, which collected McDonald's menu items that were featured across various media. Though the campaign featured many other properties, Loki season two was what inspired the restaurant to pursue the campaign, and was considered the central focus of it. The restaurant released exclusive experiences, custom merchandise, and "never-before-seen content" related to the media that inspired the meal. For the second season of Loki, any customer who purchased the dipping sauce could scan the packaging on Snapchat for a themed augmented reality experience that offered exclusive sneak peeks at the season developed by Marvel Studios, with new content debuting weekly throughout the promotion. Footage from the season was featured in the trailer promoting the "As Featured In" meal. Additionally, McDonald's transformed one of their restaurants in Brooklyn, New York, to be 1982-themed as it appears in the season starting on August 30 for three days. The restaurant's employees were in period-accurate uniforms and it featured cheaper pricing for their "As Featured In" meal, meant to reflect food prices of the 1980s. The doorway was altered to mimic a TVA timedoor for patrons to "travel" back to 1982 upon entering the location while costumes and props from the season were showcased.

The series partnered with Randy's Donuts in Inglewood, California to offer Miss Minutes-themed donuts from September 6 until September 18, 2023, with the location's iconic donut on top of the building covered to look like Miss Minutes. On October 2, 2023, Miss Minutes was featured on the Navy Pier ferris wheel. Limited edition Lucky Charms cereal boxes were made available at Walmart on October 6, 2023, that featured a lenticular cover that alternated between the cereal's leprechaun mascot Lucky and Hiddleston's Loki; this continued the series' partnership with General Mills after working them previously for first season. Additional partnerships included a tie-in commercial with Samsung Electronics directed by Farahani that saw TVA agents hunting down Loki using a Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Bones Coffee creating Loki-themed packaging for a Key lime pie-flavored coffee given the pie was a plot element for the season, and Citizen Watch making branded content with the series for their Axiom SC and Marvel x Citizen Loki watches. The "Marvel Must Haves" merchandise program for the season began on October 6. Following the premiere, Loki and O. B. were added to Avengers Campus.

Release
The second season debuted on Disney+ on October 5, 2023, at 9 p.m. Eastern Time, with subsequent episodes releasing weekly on Thursdays at that time. The season will run for six episodes, concluding on November 9. The season was originally scheduled to premiere on October 6 and release on Fridays at 3 a.m. Eastern Time, before moving to its Thursday release schedule following the similar, successful scheduling move for the Star Wars Disney+ series Ahsoka. A launch event for the season, which screened the first two episodes, occurred on October 2 at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles, alongside events in various other cities in the United States. It will be part of Phase Five of the MCU.

Reception
Audience viewership
On October 9, 2023, Disney+ revealed that "Ouroboros" had 10.9 million views worldwide in its first three days of release. This was the second most-watched season premiere for the streaming service in 2023, behind the third season of The Mandalorian. According to Whip Media's TV Time, Loki was the most watched original series across all platforms in the United States during the week of October 15, 2023, during the week of October 22, 2023, and during the week of October 29, 2023. According to the streaming aggregator JustWatch, Loki was the most watched television series across all platforms in the United States during the week of October 9–15, 2023.

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports an 84% approval rating with an average rating of 7.4/10, based on 123 reviews. The critical consensus reads, "Loki's dizzying, dazzling second season may rely on sleight of hand to distract from its slightly less satisfying storyline, but the end result still contains enough of that old Marvel magic to entertain." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 65 out of 100 based on 23 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Daniel Feinberg of The Hollywood Reporter reviewed the first four episodes, writing that the second season had "only a little of the esoteric oddness that so frequently made the first season a blast. The plot is so convoluted that the sense of fun rarely breaks through, but thanks to the sterling cast and some of the best production design on TV, there's almost always something to hold your attention — if not to trigger any emotional investment." Bob Strauss of TheWrap reviewed the first four episodes, writing that the second season provides engaging characters, "high existential drama, quirky comedy and world-threatening action [that] are blended better than in any other Disney+ show to date", and possibly "the most spectacularly cinematic of the streamer's Marvel series". For individual performances, Owen Wilson shows "unmatched comic chemistry with Hiddleston" and shows "quiet poignance in Mobius' refusal to examine his pre-TVA life"; Ke Huy Quan's character, "O. B., provides endless comic relief" as the "ultimate, socially awkward geek"; while "the deceptively sweet-sounding Tara Strong" portrays Miss Minutes as "a powerful malevolent force and potential girlfriend from hell".

Ben Travers of IndieWire reviewed the first four episodes, writing that the second season was "maddeningly loopy, levity-resistant", and "does not escape the stagnant familiarity hindering" Marvel Studios' recent work. Travers described the episodes as being "disinterested in Loki as a character" because they repeated his "hero or villain" story from the first season. Feinberg highlighted Wunmi Mosaku for doing "the heaviest emotional lifting" as Hunter B-15, who draws "sympathy" in her quest to discover her past identity. Brian Truitt of USA Today rated the second season three stars out of four, describing it as a "scrappy time-travel caper, a ticking-clock sci-fi thriller and a workplace comedy all rolled together", featuring good "character work" and "a knowing sense of humor". For cast performances, Truitt praised Hiddleston's mischievousness as Loki being endearing, Quan being "refreshing" as the "earnest" O. B., and Jonathan Majors providing "jittery chaos" as Victor Timely. Therese Lacson of Collider reviewed the first four episodes, writing that the second season "struggles with its pacing and balancing the complicated character dynamics ... with the wider, more expansive plot." However, Lacson praised directors Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead for adding "polish" to the visuals, and also described the cast as having excellent performances: Tom Hiddleston's "fragility" as Loki "made him easy to love", Owen Wilson "wry humor" as Mobius could be the funniest, while Ke Huy Quan is "particularly delightful as O. B." due to "his signature cheerful humor".

Documentary special
Main article: Marvel Studios: Assembled
In February 2021, the documentary series Marvel Studios: Assembled was announced. The special on this season, Assembled: The Making of Loki Season 2, will be released on Disney+ on November 29, 2023.

Notes
References
External links
Loki
Marvel Cinematic Universe
