https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Echo_(miniseries)

Echo (miniseries)
Production
Development
In December 2020, Alaqua Cox was announced as having been cast as the Marvel Comics character Maya Lopez / Echo in Marvel Studios' Disney+ series Hawkeye (2021). By March 2021, Marvel Studios was in early development on a spin-off from Hawkeye centered on Cox's Lopez for Disney+, with Etan Cohen and Emily Cohen set to write and executive produce. During the Disney+ Day event in November 2021, the series was officially announced as Echo, and Marion Dayre was serving as head writer by then instead of the Cohens. Amy Rardin would also join the series to serve as head writer alongside Dayre. Bert & Bertie, who directed the Hawkeye episode "Echoes" in which Lopez is introduced, did not believe they would be involved with the spin-off series and felt it would be appropriate for someone in the Native American community to further tell the character's story. In March 2022, Sydney Freeland shared a casting call on her Instagram page, indicating her involvement in the series as a director. Marvel Studios confirmed Freeland as a director in May, while also announcing that Catriona McKenzie would direct episodes of the series. Freeland directs the first episode and others. Marvel Studios' Kevin Feige, Stephen Broussard, Louis D'Esposito, Brad Winderbaum, Victoria Alonso, and Richie Palmer serve as executive producers along with Dayre, Jason Gavin, and Freeland, while Rardin is a co-executive producer. The series consists of five episodes.

Writing
A writers' room for the series had been formed by the time development of the project was revealed in March 2021. In addition to Dayre and Rardin, writers for the series include Josh Feldman, Steven P. Judd, Ken Kristensen, Rebecca Roanhorse, Bobby Wilson, Ellen Morton, Jason Gavin, Shoshannah Stern, and Chantelle Wells. In November 2021, Dayre indicated that Dara Resnik, Jessica Mecklenburg, Kaitlyn Jeffers, and Paloma Lamb would also be writers on the series, though they were not credited for any episodes. At least two episodes had been written by mid-February 2022, while writing for the other episodes was still continuing. Marvel said the series would explore the consequences of Lopez's actions in Hawkeye and reveal her origin story. Lopez's Indigeneity is reimagined for the MCU, having her be a member of the Choctaw tribe in Oklahoma rather than being from the Blackfeet Nation as in the comics. Freeland explained that the visuals in the comics "amounted to a 'hodgepodge' of imagery that made for a 'muddied' and ultimately inauthentic backstory for the character". She described the series as an exploration of trauma. Judd, who is Choctaw, helped bring authenticity to the writing of the series.:7 The first episode employs flashbacks to help explain Lopez's backstory as well as including her appearances on Hawkeye, which is "touch[ed] on in a way that you just know what you need to know upfront". Location manager Ryan Schaetzle said the story would focus on a small town. Supervising producer Eleena Khamedoost said setting Echo in Tamaha, Oklahoma was "attractive" as it allowed the writers to make it a character in the series, and "showcase a world we have never seen in the MCU".:6

Matt Murdock / Daredevil's inclusion in the series sees him searching for a former ally, which has been reported to be Jessica Jones. Palmer explained that Daredevil's inclusion was done in a way that the creatives hoped would feel like it was part of his story that had been established in Marvel Television's Netflix series, though still accessible for viewers who had not seen those series. He said, "we just wanted to make sure that it honored what came before it, but hopefully pushed it forward also" and helped lead into the Disney+ series Daredevil: Born Again.

Borys Kit of The Hollywood Reporter described Echo as "a grounded crime story", while his colleague Aaron Couch compared its tone and footage to Daredevil (2015–2018), Breaking Bad (2008–2013), and John Wick (2014), calling it "Marvel's version of a cable drama rather than an MCU streaming series". The series is the first Marvel Studios project to receive a TV-MA rating, which executive producer Brad Winderbaum called "a new direction for the [Marvel Studios] brand". Freeland added that this rating allowed the characters to be shown as "people", ones that "bleed, they die, they get killed and there are real consequences". Freeland drew inspiration from Daredevil and The Punisher (2017–2019). Winderbaum and Freeland noted that the series would have "street-level stakes" that would be less focused on the larger MCU narrative and "cosmic consequences", with Freeland adding it was "not the fate of the universe" but "the fate of family". Much of the series is set after the events of Hawkeye while also exploring a "seismic event" in Lopez's family history and how that leads her towards Wilson Fisk / Kingpin. Family is one of the main themes of the series, specifically how it is defined, with a spectrum of family dynamics shown in the series: Fisk and Lopez's conditional, "unhealthy family relationship" on one side, and Lopez's biological family on another. Freeland said, at the start of Echo, Lopez has "one definition of family, and over the course of the show we're going to challenge that definition and see if she's able to see things in a different way". Echo is initially portrayed as a villain in the comics, something Freeland was drawn too and Marvel Studios encouraged her to further explore and "push the envelope" with.

Casting
Alaqua Cox was expected to reprise her role in the series with the reveal of its development in March 2021, which was confirmed with the series' official announcement in November 2021 for Disney+ Day. By August 2021, casting for the series was underway, with Marvel Studios looking to cast deaf Native American or Latinx women. In April 2022, Vincent D'Onofrio and Charlie Cox were revealed to be involved with the series, reprising their roles as Wilson Fisk / Kingpin and Matt Murdock / Daredevil from prior MCU media. By the end of the month, Devery Jacobs was cast in an undisclosed role, reported to be a lead of the series named Julie, which Deadline Hollywood described as "resilient and strong willed". In May 2022, Marvel confirmed Jacobs's casting and announced that Chaske Spencer, Tantoo Cardinal, Cody Lightning, and Graham Greene would also star in the series, with Zahn McClarnon reprising his role as Echo's father William Lopez from Hawkeye. Charlie Cox and D'Onofrio were confirmed to be returning for the series in July 2022. In September 2023, a United States Copyright Office filing for the series revealed that Spencer was playing Henry, Cardinal playing Chula, Greene playing Skully, Lightning playing Cousin Biscuits, and Jacobs playing Bonnie.:5–6

By April 2022, Marvel Studios was looking to cast background performers and extras, particularly Native Americans, for two waves of filming. The first group of around 30 people would portray a "core group" of townspeople, while background casting for actual powwow dancers and singers occurred to give the series an additional level of authenticity. The series worked with hundreds of Native Americans from all around the country.:8 Freeland revealed that Echo features a number of cameos from other films and series that are in service to Lopez and "have a story motivation behind" their appearance.

Design
The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma along with advisers from the organization IllumiNative were consulted on the representation of Choctaw culture, legends, and history portrayed in the series. The various department heads were able to travel to the Choctaw Nation in Oklahoma learn more about the language and culture of the Choctaw, as well as experience it first hand while attending a powwow. They worked with Choctaw Chief Gary Batton, Tribal Historic Preservation Officer Dr. Ian Thompson, and Executive Director of Cultural Services Seth Fairchild. Fairchild said the Choctaw Nation saw Echo as "an opportunity to really lend our voice and culture on a scale that would otherwise not have been possible".:6–7

It's not just a suit, it's a war record. It's a unique and symbolic costume and represents Maya coming into her own and accepting her spot in her real family. It is her saying, 'I am Maya Lopez,' and I echo the powers of the ancestors not just in my kickass abilities, but in the way I dress, the way I braid my hair and down to the details on my prosthetic leg.

—Executive producer Richie Palmer on Maya Lopez's final costume and look.:8

Ambre Wrigley serves as the costume designer for the series, and called it "critical" to be able to collaborate with the Choctaw on the look of the costumes. Wrigley spoke with "at least five different tribal leaders and historians" and employed a group of Choctaw artisans to make costume items.:7 Lopez's hero suit was designed alongside Choctaw artists, who made sure it represented their people and still provided a "powerful reveal" upon its debut towards the end of the series. Cox explained that it features symbolism for happiness and power from Choctaw culture, along with bead work and gems that are meant to represent the skin from a western diamondback rattlesnake, "a very power animal" respected by the Choctaw.:8 Daredevil's costume in the series is a "new take" on his costume from the Netflix series, with the design closer to the one he wore in She-Hulk: Attorney at Law (2022) with more red. The Netflix costume was originally designed by Marvel Studios' head of visual development Ryan Meinerding, who "tweaked" it for Echo to "honor classic Daredevil" and bring the "quintessential" look of the character to this series. Chris Trujillo serves as the production designer.:8 The department heads were able to buy items directly from the Choctaw people, adding to the authenticity.:7

Filming
Quick facts: External videos... ▼
Close ▲
Principal photography began on April 21, 2022, at Trilith Studios in Fayetteville, Georgia,:2 as well as throughout the Atlanta metropolitan area, in Atlanta, with Freeland and McKenzie directing. Cinematographers include Kira Kelly for Freeland's episodes, and Magdalena Gorka for McKenzie's episodes. The series was filmed using the working titles Grasshopper and Whole Branzino. A traditional Choctaw blessing ceremony was performed before the start of production.:2 Filming was set to occur along the Great Walton Railroad in Social Circle, Georgia in April, as well as in and around Peachtree City, Georgia from late April to late August 2022. Filming was previously expected to begin in February 2022, as well as in early April. Filming establishing shots for two episodes took place in Grantville, Georgia from May 16 to 20, on various streets in the town, the Grantville water tower, and Bonnie Castle. Filming outside Atlanta occurred with the first group of extras around June 1, with the second group for three weeks in July, and with the dancers and singers extras for around two-to-three weeks in July. The powwow set was built on a rural county fairground that Trujillo felt "had this great tone, texture and character".:8 It was initially difficult to find locations in Georgia to double as Oklahoma, but the creatives were able to use their trip to the Choctaw Nation and scout the surrounding areas to gather reference photos and information that helped inform them on locations in Georgia that would work for shooting.:7 Filming occurred over 92 days, and wrapped on August 26, 2022.

Freeland worked to ensure her close-up shots included actors signing, with many on the crew taking American Sign Language classes. They learned that unlike speaking, which conveys text and subtext, signing conveys the text while a person's face convey's the subtext, which changed Freeland's approach to filming Lopez. Douglas Ridloff served as the ASL consultant, with the series employing ASL and Indigenous ASL interpreters. Ridloff would adjust his translations of English to sign language depending on each character, taking into account things such as what their proficiency should be or familial or regional dialects. For example, Bonnie signs without speaking as she is proficient while the elder characters such as Chula sign slower and use SimCom, which is signing and speaking at the same time. Ridloff was also able to incorporate Plains Indian Sign Language and other Indigenous sign languages that "date back to pre-colonization" into the series.

Post-production
In May 2023, Jeff Sneider of Above the Line reported that the series was originally filmed as eight episodes and, after various production issues, had been found by Feige to be "unreleasable". Discussions were then had about possibly editing what had been filmed into four or six episodes during post-production, before it was ultimately decided to reshoot much of the series. The series ultimately consists of five episodes. Due to the series' grounded story, it was reported as having fewer visual effects compared to Marvel Studios' other series. Joel Pashby, Amelia Allwarden, and Shelby Hall serve as editors on the series.

Music
Quick facts: External videos... ▼
Close ▲
By February 2023, Mato Wayuhi was working on the score for the series, but was no longer involved by the end of July or start of August. Dave Porter revealed in December that he was serving as the composer for the series. The title track was released by Hollywood Records and Marvel Music on January 5, 2024.
