https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iron_Man_(TV_series)


Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
First season
Second season
The Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series) and Spider-Man (1994 TV series) crossovers
Cast
Toggle Cast subsection
Main
Recurring
Guests
Episodes
Toggle Episodes subsection
Series overview
Season 1 (1994)
Season 2 (1995–96)
Crossovers
Incredible Hulk
Spider-Man
Home media
Comics
References
External links
Iron Man (TV series)

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For the 2009 television series, see Iron Man: Armored Adventures.
Iron Man

The title card for Season 1 of Iron Man
Genre	Superhero
Action
Adventure
Based on
Iron Man
by
Stan Lee
Larry Lieber
Don Heck
Jack Kirby
Voices of	Robert Hays
James Avery
Dorian Harewood
John Reilly
Ed Gilbert
Robert Ito
Jim Cummings
Katherine Moffat
Jennifer Darling
Casey Defranco
Jennifer Hale
James Warwick
Tom Kane
Narrated by	George Johnson
Theme music composer	Keith Emerson
(season 1)
William Kevin Anderson
(season 2)
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	2
No. of episodes	26
Production
Executive producers	Avi Arad
Stan Lee
Rick Ungar
Producers	Glen Hill
Dennis Ho
Ted Tchoe
Camera setup	Setup
Running time	26 minutes
Production companies	Marvel Entertainment Group
Marvel Films
Rainbow Animation Korea
Koko Enterprises
Release
Original network	Syndication (The Marvel Action Hour/Marvel Action Universe)
Original release	September 24, 1994 –
February 24, 1996
Related
The Avengers: United They Stand
Iron Man, also known as Iron Man: The Animated Series, is an American animated television series based on Marvel Comics' superhero Iron Man. The series aired from 1994 to 1996 in syndication as part of The Marvel Action Hour, which packaged Iron Man with another animated series based on Marvel properties, the Fantastic Four, with one half-hour episode from each series airing back-to-back. The show was backed by a toy line that featured many armor variants.[1][2]

This series of Iron Man was among the few television series to be re-recorded in THX. This may have been usual at the time for a motion picture, but it is rare for a television series. Off the heels of the release of the live-action Iron Man film in 2008, reruns began airing on the Jetix block on Toon Disney.

Although only lasting two seasons, Iron Man was the subject of a major overhaul between seasons when its production studio was changed. The result was a massively changed premise, tone, and general approach, which left the disparate seasons scarcely recognizable as being two halves of the same series.[1]

First season
The first season of Iron Man featured little more than a Masters of the Universe-style battle of "good against evil", as billionaire industrialist Tony Stark battled the evil forces of the world-conquering Mandarin as the armored superhero, Iron Man. In his evil endeavors to steal Stark's technology and Iron Man's armor, the Mandarin led a group of villains consisting of Dreadknight, Blizzard, Blacklash, Grey Gargoyle (when it comes to fighting Iron Man and his team, he has a tendency to accidentally turn his fellow villains to stone), Hypnotia (an exclusive villain whom Dreadknight and Blacklash were rivals for the affections of), Whirlwind, Living Laser, MODOK, Fin Fang Foom, and Justin Hammer. To combat these villains, Iron Man had the help of his own team (based on Force Works, a then-current comic book team which has since faded into obscurity), including Century, War Machine, Scarlet Witch, Hawkeye (replacing U.S. Agent from the comics) and Spider Woman.

The season consisted mostly of single-episode open-and-shut-case adventures, with two two-part stories late towards the end. Unlike many other Marvel animated series, despite featuring over-the-top titles that paid homage to the early Stan Lee written Marvel comics of the 1960s (for example, "The Grim Reaper Wears a Teflon Coat", and "Rejoice, I am Ultimo, Thy Deliverer"), almost none of the episodes were adaptations of comic book stories, consisting instead of original stories penned by Ron Friedman, occasionally collaborated on by Stan Lee himself. The closest the season came to adapting a comic book tale was in the two-part "The Origin of Iron Man", which recounted a (modified and modernized) version of the character's comic book origin (see below) just before the season concluded.

This late-run recounting of the title character's origin is symptomatic of what is generally thought of as the season's greatest weakness – despite (or perhaps because of) having such a large cast of characters, very few of the show's heroes and villains were actually developed in any way, leaving viewers unaware of their personal stories and powers.[3] The show is generally held to have been at its best when filling in these origin blanks (MODOK in "Enemy Without, Enemy Within,"[4] Iron Man and the Mandarin in their self-titled "The Origin of..." episodes[5]), but these were rare occasions, with virtually every other plot simply consisting of the Mandarin attempting to steal Stark's newest invention and being bested, often through very strange and illogical means (with the nadir perhaps being Iron Man somehow using the energy of a small tape-player to restore his armor to full power in "Silence My Companion, Death My Destination").[6]

A small sub-plot in the first season revolves around Mandarin secretly spying on Force Works. It culminates in "The Wedding of Iron Man" when Stark realizes they have been spied on by reviewing events from previous episodes (and explaining how Mandarin's forces always knew where they would be), realizing that Mandarin has acquired enough information to potentially deduce the true identity of Iron Man. The entire episode's plot is dedicated to resolving the problem, culminating in Iron Man and his team setting up an elaborate deception where Mandarin sees Iron Man and Tony Stark in the same place with the intention being to convince him that the two men are not the same person (the 'Tony' in this situation was an android).

In this first season the subtle keyboard's main theme is created by the legendary progressive rock artist Keith Emerson, most know today for his work on the supergroup Emerson, Lake & Palmer and for his soundtrack for Dario Argento's horror Inferno.

Second season
In 1995, Marvel switched The Marvel Action Hour to a new animation studio (as previously mentioned, the animation in season 1 was provided by the Rainbow Animation Group, while the animation in season 2 was provided by Koko Enterprises), and with it came new writers (Ron Friedman was replaced by Tom Tataranowicz[7] for season 2) and new music for each sequence, coupled with a new direction for the series. The first season's theme song was replaced in the second season by an intense electric guitar theme (composed by William Kevin Anderson), featuring the repeated refrain of "I am Iron Man!", while showing Tony Stark beating red-hot iron plates into shape with a blacksmith's hammer (possibly to mimic the Black Sabbath song "Iron Man").[8] Tony Stark's longer hair style in the second season was based upon the artist Mark Bright's depiction of Stark from the late 1980s, which is where most of the episodes from season 2 were based upon. In the first season, the series seemed to follow the look of an early 1990s Marvel comic (specifically, artist Paul Ryan's[9] take on Iron Man).

One major change was that, like in the comics, Tony Stark's worsening medical condition (brought upon by a missile striking him in the season premiere causing severe damage to his already ill body) required him to need periodic recharges of his "body battery" (represented as a piece of cybernetic tech over his right pectoral muscle) to keep him alive, akin to how in the comics Tony needed his armor's chest plate to keep him alive (though unlike in the comics he did not need to wear the chest plate at all times). Another major change was that Tony could literally change armors on the fly, represented as vocalizing the name of the specific armor, which would then appear in place of his usual suit in a ring of energy (and would similarly revert to his usual armor as necessary); in addition to the hydro, stealth and space armors, as seen in the comics, several new armors were invented for the second season (and in turn for the toy line), specifically magnetic (able to give off electro-magnetic charges), radiation (used for situations involving contaminated areas), inferno (fire-fighting), subterranean (for drilling underground) and samurai (never actually used in combat). However, prolonged use of his specialized armors would often leave Tony's power levels low and endangering his life.

The new story lines spanned multiple episodes and were no longer "open and shut" cases. They formed a linking narrative, featuring themes of duplicity, consequence, and phobias. Also, the stories were no longer centered on the Mandarin, whose rings had been scattered and whose power had been depleted. While the Mandarin did appear in these episodes, his appearances were reduced to cameos in the cliffhangers at the end of the story, as he tried to retrieve each ring.

Another change was that Force Works was mostly written out of the series, parting ways with Stark after he deceives them in order to work in secret with the Mandarin when Fin Fang Foom and his fellow Dragons were plotting to eliminate Earth. When Stark's counter plan against Justin Hammer, which includes faking his death without the knowledge of his teammates, leads to a disbanding of Force Works, Julia Carpenter and James Rhodes are the only ones who continue to work with Stark. This split would be revisited with Stark's ensuing conflicts with Hawkeye over the course of several episodes.

Also, War Machine develops a phobia of being trapped inside his armor (also based on a then-current comic storyline), but this is resolved before the final episode. While Rhodes was active as War Machine in season 1, he remained out of armor for the majority of season 2 due to reliving a tragic drowning experience while being trapped underwater in the War Machine armor in the season 2 episode "Fire and Rain". Rhodes eventually overcomes his fear and dons the War Machine armor once again in the episode "Distant Boundaries".

Prior to finding his last two rings, the Mandarin claims his eighth ring from MODOK in the episode "Empowered". "Empowered" was the clip show of the season, the purpose being that the Mandarin wanted to learn of Iron Man's recent activities. In the finale,[10][11] the Mandarin, having regained all of his rings, unleashes a mist using the Heart of Darkness to render everything technological useless. Iron Man reunites with Force Works in order to stop him. The Mandarin unmasks Iron Man before their final showdown ends in his death. More specifically, Iron Man manages to reflect the power of Mandarin's rings, destroying them, and ultimately leaving the Mandarin with amnesia and helpless before a band of mountain bandits who likely killed him. After the death of the Mandarin, MODOK and the rest of Mandarin's henchmen were sent to jail.

After disappointing ratings, the series was canceled.

The Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series) and Spider-Man (1994 TV series) crossovers
See also: The Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series), List of Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series) episodes, Spider-Man (1994 TV series), and List of Spider-Man (1994 TV series) episodes
Dorian Harewood reprises his role of War Machine from the solo Iron Man animated series in The Incredible Hulk episode "Helping Hand, Iron Fist". He originally stops Rick Jones from seeing Tony Stark (voiced by Robert Hays, who was also reprising his Iron Man role) at Stark Enterprises, but takes him to Stark after Jones explained that he needed Stark's help to find Bruce Banner. He later alerts Stark of the arrival of General Ross, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Gabriel Jones, and a squad of Hulkbusters. War Machine fights some of the Hulkbusters alongside Jones and Iron Man.

The pair appear again in 1994's Spider-Man The Animated Series. Iron Man was once again voiced by Robert Hays and a different version of War Machine was voiced by James Avery (reprising their parts from the Iron Man animated series around the same period at the time when Dorian Harewood was voicing Tombstone).[12] They first appeared in the episodes "Venom Returns" and "Carnage" in which Dormammu orders Venom to steal the Time Dilation Accelerator from Stark Enterprises, which is capable of releasing Dormammu from his own far-off dimension. Venom is quickly defeated by Spider-Man and War Machine. However, Venom gets help from Cletus Kasady, his cellmate who has bonded with another symbiote, Carnage. After the Symbiotes steal the machine, War Machine is too wounded to continue fighting, so Iron Man teams up with Spider-Man and stops the Symbiotes and prevent Dormammu from leaving his dimension. Tony Stark also makes a cameo in the episode called "The Spot" in which Tony Stark fires Dr. Jonathon Ohn from the Time Dilation Accelerator project because Stark knows the project is dangerous after Carnage almost released Dormammu to Earth using Accelerator machinery which led to Dr. Ohn being hired by Kingpin. Iron Man later appears in the three-part episode "Secret Wars" in which the Beyonder creates a war between good and evil to see who is better. In the end, the heroes win and everyone, except for Spider-Man who has to stop the evil Spider-Carnage from destroying all of reality in the following series finale, is sent back to Earth without any memory.

Cast
Main
Robert Hays – Iron Man/Tony Stark, Living Laser
James Avery – War Machine/James Rhodes (Season 1, episodes 1–5), Whirlwind (Season 1, episodes 1–10), Blacklash (1994–1995)
Ed Gilbert – Mandarin (Season 1), Grey Gargoyle, Ultimo
Robert Ito – Mandarin (Season 2)
Jim Cummings – MODOK, Century ("The Beast Within" only), many additional supporting characters (including Bill Clinton) and stand-in vocals for War Machine, Whirlwind, Grey Gargoyle, & Justin Hammer
Dorian Harewood – War Machine/James Rhodes (Season 1, episode 6 onwards), Whirlwind (Season 1, episode 11 onwards), Blacklash (1995–1996), Stilt-Man
John Reilly – Hawkeye/Clint Barton, Beetle
Katherine Moffat – Scarlet Witch/Wanda Frank (Season 1), Rachel Carpenter
Linda Holdahl – Hypnotia (Season 1)[13]
Jennifer Darling – Scarlet Witch (Season 2), Hypnotia (Season 2)
Casey Defranco – Spider-Woman/Julia Carpenter (Season 1)
Jennifer Hale – Spider-Woman/Julia Carpenter (Season 2), Ghost (shared)
James Warwick – Century (Season 1), Sam Jaggers, General Hirsch
Tom Kane – H.O.M.E.R., Century ("Hands of the Mandarin" only), Stingray, Ghost (shared), Sunturion
Recurring
Philip Abbott – Nick Fury
Neil Dickson – Dreadknight
Linda Holdahl – Hypnotia (Season 1)
Chuck McCann – Blizzard
Neil Ross – Fin Fang Foom, Wellington Yinsen, Howard Walter Stark (Season 1), Blizzard ("The Beast Within" only)
Tony Steedman – Justin Hammer (Season 1)
Efrem Zimbalist Jr. – Justin Hammer (Season 2), Firepower
Guests
Dimitra Aryls – Martha Stark
Sarah Douglas – Alana Ulanova
Jeannie Elias – Veronica Benning
Matt Frewer – Leader
William Hootkins – Crimson Dynamo (1st time)
Jamie Horton – Controller, Ghost (shared)
Julia Kato – Dr. Su-Yin
Todd Louiso – The Hacker
Gerard Maguire – Titanium Man
Neal McDonough – Firebrand/Gary Gilbert
Ron Perlman – Hulk/Bruce Banner
Peter Renaday – Howard Stark (Season 2)
Stu Rosen – Crimson Dynamo (2nd time)
Marla Rubinoff – Elastika
W. Morgan Sheppard – Dum Dum Dugan
Scott Valentine – Dark Aegis
David Warner – Arthur Dearborn
Lisa Zane – Madame Masque
Episodes
Series overview
Season	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1
13	September 24, 1994	December 17, 1994
2
13	September 23, 1995	February 24, 1996
Season 1 (1994)
No.	Title	Written by	Original air date
1	"And the Sea Shall Give Up Its Dead"	Ron Friedman	September 24, 1994
The Mandarin uses a zombified submarine crew against Iron Man.

Introducing: Iron Man, Century, Hawkeye, Scarlet Witch, Spider-Woman, War Machine, Justin Hammer, Mandarin, MODOK, Blacklash, Blizzard, Dreadknight, Fin Fang Foom, Whirlwind, Grey Gargoyle, Hypnotia, Titanium Man.
2	"Rejoice! I Am Ultimo, Thy Deliverer"	Ted Pederson & Francis Moss
(story by: Ron Friedman)	October 1, 1994
Mandarin accidentally releases a giant robot wishing to destroy all life.

Introducing: Ultimo
3	"Data In, Chaos Out"	Written by Doug Booth
(story by: Ron Friedman & Stan Lee)	October 8, 1994
When Mandarin makes plans to crash the stock market, MODOK uses an invention to mind control War Machine.
4	"Silence My Companion, Death My Destination"	Written by Steve Hayes
(story by: Ron Friedman)	October 15, 1994
Mandarin attaches a bomb to a new Stark Industries tank.

Introducing: Rachel Carpenter
5	"The Grim Reaper Wears a Teflon Coat"	Written by Doug Booth
(story by: Ron Friedman & Stan Lee)	October 22, 1994
Mandarin steals an experimental military plane.
6	"Enemy Without, Enemy Within"	Ron Friedman	October 29, 1994
Mandarin's forces ambush Force Works near a photography shoot on the beach. So why is MODOK going to Iron Man for help?
7	"The Origin of the Mandarin"	Ron Friedman	November 5, 1994
Iron Man discovers a cube that reveals the Mandarin's mysterious origin.

Introducing: Wellington Yinsen
8	"The Defection of Hawkeye"	Ron Friedman	November 12, 1994
The heroes of Force Works begin to suspect Hawkeye of being a traitor.
9	"Iron Man to the Second Power, Part 1"	Yale Rudoff	November 19, 1994
MODOK creates an Iron Man duplicate.
10	"Iron Man to the Second Power, Part 2"	Ron Friedman & Yale Rudoff	November 26, 1994
Force Works tires to locate the real Iron Man.

Introducing: Living Laser
11	"The Origin of Iron Man, Part 1"	Ron Friedman	December 3, 1994
Iron Man's origin is presented as Tony Stark is captured and dons "Iron Man" suits.

Introducing: Howard Stark
12	"The Origin of Iron Man, Part 2"	Ron Friedman	December 10, 1994
Tony Stark struggles to repair his armor while Mandarin's minions and Force Works fight to find him first.
13	"The Wedding of Iron Man"	Ron Friedman	December 17, 1994
Tony and Julia get married.
Season 2 (1995–96)
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date
14	1	"The Beast Within"	Richard Trueblood	Greg Johnson	September 23, 1995
Fin Fang Foom betrays the Mandarin and he and his dragon brethren try to kill the human race. In the end the dragons are killed and the Mandarin is presumed dead. Iron Man's team leave except for War Machine and Spider-Woman. The Mandarin survives and begins to reclaim his rings.

Introducing: Nick Fury
15	2	"Fire and Rain"	Bob Arkwright	Len Wein	September 30, 1995
Iron Man and War Machine fight Firebrand, forcing War Machine to confront his aquaphobia.

Introducing: Firebrand
16	3	"Cell of Iron"	Dan Thompson	Jan Strnad	October 7, 1995
Iron Man battles A.I.M. when they attack the Star Well satellite.

Introducing: Sunturion, A.I.M.
17	4	"Not Far From the Tree"	Bob Arkwright	Francis Moss	October 14, 1995
Howard Stark suddenly reappears. But Tony's excitement is short lived, because A.I.M. and their chief enforcer Crimson Dynamo are determined to kill Howard.

Introducing: Crimson Dynamo
18	5	"Beauty Knows No Pain"	Dan Thompson	Brooks Wachtel	October 21, 1995
Iron Man battles his old flame turned enemy Madame Masque, who is trying to unlock the power of Isis.

Introducing: Madame Masque
19	6	"Iron Man, On the Inside"	Dan Thompson	Steve Cuden	November 4, 1995
When Ultimo severely injures Hawkeye, Iron Man must go inside Hawkeye to save him. But a miniature Ultimo is after Iron Man.
20	7	"Distant Boundaries"	Bob Arkwright	Greg Johnson	November 11, 1995
Iron Man heads to the distant planet Elysian.
21	8	"The Armor Wars, Part 1"	Dan Thompson	Len Uhley	November 18, 1995
After a battle with Crimson Dynamo Iron Man realizes someone is selling his technology! Soon Iron Man goes after every armored superhero or super villain, leaving S.H.I.E.L.D. hunting Tony down.

Introducing: Beetle, Controller, Stingray, Firepower, Stilt-Man, Ghost
22	9	"The Armor Wars, Part 2"	Bob Arkwright	Len Uhley	November 25, 1995
Iron Man continues his efforts to disable all other armored warriors.
23	10	"Empowered"	Bob Arkwright	Greg Johnson	February 3, 1996
Modok locates one of the Mandarin's missing power rings.
24	11	"Hulk Buster"	Bob Arkwright & Dan Thompson	Francis Moss, Ted Pederson and Greg Johnson	February 10, 1996
Iron Man and Bruce Banner work together to recover one of the Mandarin's rings.
25	12	"Hands of the Mandarin, Part 1"	Bob Arkwright	Douglas Booth	February 17, 1996
The Mandarin announces his intentions to take over the world.
26	13	"Hands of the Mandarin, Part 2"	Bob Arkwright & Dan Thompson	Douglas Booth	February 24, 1996
The Mandarin captures Iron Man and the rest of Force Works.
Crossovers
Incredible Hulk

Iron Man and War Machine (background) confront General Thunderbolt Ross on The Incredible Hulk.
Main article: List of Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series) episodes
No.	Title	Written by	Original air date
4	"Helping Hand, Iron Fist"	Stewart St. John	September 29, 1996
Bruce Banner goes to Tony Stark for a cure. But a blow to the head leaves Bruce, and Hulk, amnesiac.
Spider-Man

Iron Man joins forces with Spider-Man on Spidey's 1990s animated series.
Main article: List of Spider-Man (1994 TV series) episodes
No.	Title	Written by	Original air date
First crossover
37	"The Sins of the Fathers, Chapter X: "Venom Returns"	John Semper (Teleplay by: Stan Berkowitz, Len Wein, & John Semper)	November 2, 1996
38	"The Sins of the Fathers, Chapter XI: "Carnage""	John Semper (Teleplay by: Stan Berkowitz, James Krieg, & John Semper)	November 9, 1996
Second crossover
61	"Secret Wars, Chapter I: Arrival"	John Semper and Karen Milovich	November 7, 1997
62	"Secret Wars, Chapter II: The Gauntlet of the Red Skull"	Virginia Roth	November 14, 1997
63	"Secret Wars, Chapter III: Doom"	John Semper, Mark Hoffmeier, and Ernie Altbacker	November 21, 1997
Tony Stark also had a cameo in "The Spot" episode of Spider-Man.[14]
Although he never spoke, Iron Man had a few cameos in a few of the Fantastic Four episodes, including the Season 2 episodes "To Battle the Living Planet"[15] and "Doomsday".
Home media
On October 8, 2007, both seasons were released together in a Region 2 three-disc set from Jetix Europe and Maximum Entertainment Ltd. in 2007, when Disney had the rights to the Marvel shows and before they brought the rights back, all before the 2009 take over of Marvel by Disney. The 3 disc set had no features and just included all 26 episodes. UK company Clear Vision Ltd. released two sets exclusive to their website on April 19, 2010. One contains all 26 episodes over 4 discs while the other – which includes the 1960s Iron Man animated series – is a six disc box set entitled Iron Man: The Ultimate Collection. Buena Vista Home Entertainment released the entire series on Region 4 DVD – which spans 3 separate volumes – on March 30, 2010[16] and later released the series on Region 1 DVD on May 4, 2010 to coincide with Iron Man 2, which opened in theaters a few days later, on May 7. The complete series is available to stream on Disney+ although all seasons are erroneously group under season 1, as of the service's launch on November 12, 2019.[17]

Comics
An eight-issue comic-book series based on the show was published by Marvel:

Marvel Action Hour: Iron Man (November 1994 to June 1995).[18]
References
 "Iron Man – The Complete 1994 Animated Television Series DVD Review". IGN. Ziff Davis. Retrieved August 15, 2010.
 "The History of Iron Man on TV". IGN. Ziff Davis. Retrieved August 16, 2010.
 Marvel Animation Age
 Marvel Animation Age Presents: Iron Man
 "Marvel Animation Age Presents: Iron Man". Archived from the original on 2007-02-13. Retrieved 2006-09-01.
 Marvel Animation Age Presents: Iron Man
 Tom Tataranowicz Talks Iron Man
 "The greatest thing to come from the first-ever Iron Man-centric TV series is the incredibly awesome second (and final) season opening credits. Those credits feature a shirtless, mulleted Tony Stark using a large hammer to create his armor, while cheesy faux-metal plays, complete with a familiar refrain – "I am Iron Man!" – That's both awful and wonderful all at once."
 Kendall, G. (8 December 2019). "That OTHER '90s Marvel Series on Disney+". CBR.com.
 "The Hands Of The Mandarin, Part One". Archived from the original on 2007-02-13. Retrieved 2006-09-01.
 "The Hands of the Mandarin, Part Two". Archived from the original on 2007-02-13. Retrieved 2006-09-01.
 "Toonzone". Marvel.toonzone.net. Archived from the original on 2013-06-11. Retrieved 2010-09-13.
 imdb.com
 Marvel Animation Age – The Spot
 Marvel Animation Age – Fantastic Four: The Animated Series – Episode Review – To Battle The Living Planet
 "Iron Man (1994) Region 4 DVD Release Date". EzyDVD. March 30, 1010. Archived from the original on April 20, 2010. Retrieved March 30, 2010.
 Iron Man on Disney+ Edit this at Wikidata
 Marvel Action Hour: Iron Man – Comic Vine
External links
Official website
Iron Man at IMDb
DRG4's Iron Man: The Animated Series page
Marvel Animation Age – Iron Man Archived 2016-12-20 at the Wayback Machine
The History of Iron Man on TV
TVShowsonDVD.com
The Marvel Action Hour (1994–1996) | Iron Man TV | Iron Man World | UGO.com
vte
Iron Man
vte
Animated TV series based on Marvel Comics properties
vte
Spider-Man (1994 TV series)
Portals:
icon Television
flag United States
icon Speculative fiction
icon Cartoon
icon 1990s
Categories: 1990s American animated television series1994 American television series debuts1996 American television series endingsAmerican children's animated action television seriesAmerican children's animated adventure television seriesAmerican children's animated science fantasy television seriesAmerican children's animated superhero television seriesAnimated television series based on Marvel ComicsAnimated series produced by Marvel StudiosFirst-run syndicated television programs in the United StatesIron Man television seriesTelevision series by Saban EntertainmentTelevision shows set in Los AngelesWorks by Len Wein
This page was last edited on 19 July 2023, at 12:41 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
Toggle limited content width

MODOK is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, the character first appeared in Tales of Suspense #93. The first MODOK is George Tarleton, a former employee of Advanced Idea Mechanics (A.I.M.), an arms-dealing organization specializing in futuristic weaponry, who undergoes substantial mutagenic medical experimentation originally designed to increase his intelligence. While successful, the experiments result in him developing a freakishly overdeveloped head and a stunted body, causing the character's signature look and use of a hoverchair for mobility. After the experiments, he kills his creators and takes control of A.I.M. Following Tarleton being changed back to normal, a new independent being created afterward dubs himself MODOK Superior, becoming the enemy of Gwenpool.

Change page preview settings

keyword: M.O.D.O.K
