https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Marvel_Anime_episodes#Iron_Man

Iron Man
No.	Title	Original airdate	English airdate
01	"Japan: Enter Iron Man" (Iron Man Arrives in Japan)
Transcription: "Aian Man, Rainichi" (Japanese: アイアンマン、来日)	1 October 2010	23 July 2011[5][6]
In Japan, Tony Stark supervises the construction of an Arc Station and, planning to retire as Iron Man, readies the Iron Man Dio armor for a successor. However, the prototype's test flight fails and the test pilot becomes brainwashed during targeting practice, attacking his colleagues. After diagnosis reveals the Dio suit was hacked by an outside source, Tony reactivates his classic Iron Man armor and neutralizes it, then battles and defeats Scorpio - a warrior of the Zodiac order. Afterwards, Tony finds the Dio suit missing.
02	"Going Nuclear" (Find the Missing Nuke)
Transcription: "Kieta Kaku o Oe" (Japanese: 消えた核を追え)	8 October 2010	5 August 2011
When Tony is accused of smuggling a stolen shipment of plutonium, Iron Man investigates the ship it was carried on and runs into another Zodiac warrior, Cancer. With chaotic driving and Sakurai's help, Tony races to get the plutonium from the true culprits, which ends up in Nanami's possession. Saving Nanami, Iron Man battles Cancer once again and destroys him. Tony is cleared of his charges and Nanami writes a news report to put Tony in a positive light.
03	"Reap the Whirlwind" (The Reviving Project)
Transcription: "Yomigaeru Purojekuto" (Japanese: 蘇るプロジェクト)	15 October 2010	12 August 2011
A series of strange tornadoes kills Professor Ohno and Satoshi Yamaguchi. While diverting another tornado, Iron Man discovers their source is the Zodiac robot Aries. Professor Michelinie reveals the weather manipulation Tesla Project, but another Tornado comes for him as Tony helps reluctant rescue workers save the lives of a mother and daughter. Michelinie turns out to be the one that hacked the project and collaborated with Zodiac to get it online, shortly before the mad professor gets himself sucked up in a tornado. Using the newly developed EMP Cannon, Iron Man makes a risky fight and destroys Aries, stopping the weather disasters.
04	"A Twist of Memory, a Turn of the Mind" (Reunion)
Transcription: "Saikai" (Japanese: 再会)	22 October 2010	19 August 2011
Tony recalls his past five years ago where, after a test of his new Screamer jet, he was kept in captivity by terrorists led by Righella and met Ho Yinsen. Showing Tony the error of his apathetic ways, Yinsin helped him build the prototype Iron Man suit and sacrificed himself to allow Tony to escape. Meanwhile, a vengeful Kawashima symbiotically merges with the Zodiac machine Taurus to try and eliminate Tony. Wolverine collaborates with Iron Man to destroy Taurus and rescue Kawashima, after which Iron Man faces the Dio suit again - discovering it is piloted by none other than Yinsen.
05	"Outbreak" (Arc Station, Infection)
Transcription: "Āku Sutēshon, Kansen" (Japanese: アークステーション, 感染)	29 October 2010	26 August 2011
A strange infection that turns victims' bodily fluids blue has arisen, with Tony's in-progress Arc Station suspected to be the cause. Meanwhile, the JSDF satellites have been compromised and Sakurai implores Tony's help, in which they discover SAT-1 to be the source of the illness. Using Dr. Tanaka's prototype technology and a ride from Sakurai, Iron Man gets to SAT-1 and finds the Zodiac robot Aquarius using the satellite to induce the sickness through radiation, which he engages and destroys.
06	"Technical Difficulties" (Cyber Battlefront)
Transcription: "Dennō Sensen" (Japanese: 電脳戦線)	5 November 2010	2 September 2011
A Zodiac computer virus controlled by Pisces causes the robots in the Arc Station to become mavericks while the air conditioner is set to a deep-freezing temperature. Tony repels the virus with a firewall, which causes it to go berserk and make electronics across the city go haywire. Iron Man lures the virus into his own operating systems and eventually he fights the virus in cyberspace - during which the virus' misguided master, Sho, has a change of heart and sets things right. As Iron Man is attacked by two Cancer robots, he is faced by the new Ramon Zero armor.
07	"At the Mercy of My Friends" (Escape)
Transcription: "Dasshutsu" (Japanese: 脱出)	12 November 2010	9 September 2011
The Ramon Zero saves Tony from the Cancer robots. That night Tony and Dr. Tanka are kidnapped by Zodiac operatives and taken to a remote island, with Tony missing the arc reactor for his life-support. Yinsen emerges and offers Tony to create weapons for Zodiac, which Tony turns down before unsuccessfully attempting to escape via a makeshift transceiver and a motorboat. Eventually, using an improvised rocket launcher, Tony signals a flare for rescue. Yinsen returns Tony his arc reactor, while Ramon Zero - revealed to be piloted by Sakurai - destroys a Scorpio robot.
08	"Daughter of the Zodiac" (Girl)
Transcription: "Shōjo" (Japanese: 少女)	19 November 2010	16 September 2011
Tony encounters a telekinetic girl named Aki, who apparently escaped from Zodiac and seeks Tony's protection, but Aki's stay with Tony escalates into chaos. Tony later makes up with Aki, but Sakurai takes her into custody shortly before a Zodiac robot, Virgo, attacks them. Aki's brainwaves make Virgo impervious to Iron Man's attacks. Aki saves Iron Man but becomes merges with Virgo, causing a destructive magnetic field to build up. Iron Man eventually saves Aki while Dr. Tanka destroys Virgo, though Aki's memory of Tony and Zodiac is erased.
09	"A Duel of Iron" (VS Iron Man)
Transcription: "Bāsasu Aian Man" (Japanese: VSアイアンマン)	26 November 2010	23 September 2011
Yinsen recalls when a lady named Shehla saved him from death at Righella's hideout after his sacrifice to save Tony, making him one of the family until a terrorist attack wiped them all out, his grief and rage leading to his corruption by Zodiac. Yinsen steals a container of plutonium alongside the Zodiac robot Sagittarius, and Iron Man tries to track of him down. During a duel, Yinsen sends an Iron Man Sigma to destroy the Arc Station, while Iron Man fruitlessly negotiates with him and is eventually defeated due to holding back on his old friend. Yinsen steals the Iron Man armor, throws Tony into an underground river and takes over the Arc Station.
10	"Casualties of War" (Iron Will)
Transcription: "Kōtetsu no Isshi" (Japanese: 鋼鉄の意志)	3 December 2010	30 September 2011
Yinsen holds everyone in the Arc Reactor hostage for the prime minister Kuroda to meet his demands, claiming to have killed Tony. However, Sakurai manages to rescue Tony and head over to the Arc Reactor, avoiding Sagittarius, while Nanami recovers Tony's armor and brings it to him. Iron Man destroys Sagittarius, then proceeds to battle Yinsen once more. However, Zodiac orders the Iron Man Sigma units to kill Yinsen after deeming him no longer useful, resulting in them destroying each-other. With his dying words, Yinsin admits he was wrong to Tony and urges the latter not to abuse Iron Man's power as he did.
11	"The Beginning of the End" (Mastermind)
Transcription: "Kuromaku" (Japanese: 黒幕)	10 December 2010	7 October 2011
The JSDF holds Tony in custody due to rumors of his involvement with Zodiac, but Sakurai has other plans for Tony. As the Arc Reactor enters a meltdown buildup, Zodiac takes over the military base and destroys the parliament centre. Iron Man fights and wards off a Zodiac robot, while Sakurai locates the Zodiac command centre under Tokyo Bay - where he discovers its leader to be Kuroda, now armed in his Rasetsu armor with intent to destroy and rebuild Japan. Sakurai fights Kuroda but is killed, though he manages to notify Tony of Kuroda's treachery.
12	"Endgame" (The Light in the Distance)
Transcription: "Eien no Hikari" (Japanese: 永遠の光)	17 December 2010	14 October 2011
Kuroda enacts a coup d'etat and declares martial law over Japan. As Dr. Tanaka confesses to unwittingly overloading the Arc Reactor, Kuroda destroys the US military presence and reveals that Tanaka is really the Zodiac robot Tony fought before, Gemini. Iron Man is able to snap Tanaka out of her frenzy, but finds her fatally wounded by her own weapons. Iron Man fights and struggles against Kuroda's heavily-armed Rasetsu, but Tanaka uses the last of her strength to provide Iron Man the power he needs to vanquish Kuroda. Months later, Tony completes his work on the Arc Station to provide renewable energy for the world, remembering Tanaka's sacrifice as he departs for home.
