https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Marvel_Anime_episodes#Blade

Blade
No.	Title	Original airdate	English airdate
01	"The Man, Blade" (His Name is Blade)
Transcription: "Sono Otoko, Bureido" (Japanese: その男、ブレイド)	1 July 2011[12]	13 January 2012
While recapping his history, Blade seeks the vampire who killed his mother. Makoto and Hayate rampage the vampire Club Feed, Blade joining in and slaying the werewolf Ladu. The vampire leader Deacon Frost infects Hayate and Blade realises he is the one he's looking for. Blade kills Hayate and Makoto swears revenge for that.
02	"Mad World" (A Night for the Living, A Mourning for the Dead)
Transcription: "Kurutta Sekai" (Japanese: 狂った世界)	8 July 2011	20 January 2012
Illegal migrant women have gone missing. Detective Sakomizu investigates a Yakazu hideout, where Blade gets Sakomizu to take him to Police HQ. Blade interrogates the corrupt Chief Gondou. In the subway, Blade and Sakomizu find Tanaka, who has been running a blood farm using the kidnapped women. Sakomizu with help from Makoto fights off Tanaka's vampire cats and frees the women, while Blade battles Tanaka revealing himself to be a Water Tiger Monster and manages to kill him. Everyone is able to escape from the place as Tanaka's self destruction bomb explodes. Blade continues his pursuit for Deacon Frost.
03	"Vampire Hunter" (Dead on Arrival)
Transcription: "Vanpaia Hantā" (Japanese: ヴァンパイア・ハンター)	15 July 2011[13]	27 January 2012
Blade accompanied by Noah van Helsing and his dog Razor, board a ship run by Captain McRay, Makoto hitching a ride and plotting to kill Blade. After sustaining Blade with a Retrovirus injection, Noah explains to Makoto how found, raised and helped Blade. The ship is attacked by Mandurugos. Makoto puts her vengeance aside to save Blade from the Mandrurugo leader Matthes. Blade defeats Matthes by injecting the Retrovirus into her. The Mandrurugos flee, taking Matthes' body with them as well as Noah.
04	"Childhood Days" (That Was Then, This Is Now)
Transcription: "Shōnen no Jibi" (Japanese: 少年の日々)	22 July 2011[13]	3 February 2012
In the Philippines, Blade recalls as a child, he was raised by a big family, then his vampire mother Tara took it all away from him. During a slave trade, Makoto rescues Noah, while Blade kills the Mandurugos and their leader Matthes. Blade along with Makoto and Razor continue to follow Frost's trail.
05	"Island Lights" (The Island of Fire)
Transcription: "Hikaru Shima" (Japanese: 光る島)	29 July 2011[13]	10 February 2012
As Blade, Makoto and Razor infiltrate Siquijor Island, Lucius Issac issues Frost a warning against his activities. Blade runs into Verdugo natives, who are hunting for the Manananggal. After attacking the base, Blade fights Frost only to get defeated and a sample of blood extracted from him. The Manananggal comes and attacks the Verdugo. With the aid of the Verdugo and their spiritual powers, Blade slays the Manananggal.
06	"The Magic Medicine Man" (Bad Blood)
Transcription: "Mahōi no Otoko" (Japanese: 魔法医の男)	5 August 2011[13]	17 February 2012
A vampire bat tells Blade he can find Frost in Sumatra. There Frost is mining silver with a slave labor. The shaman Agus seeks Blade's help to cure the local women turned into Sundel bolongs. Blade is skeptical and attacks the silver mine the next day. Agus is killed by his infected wife, proven wrong about the cure, uses sacred water to destroy all the Sundel bolongs. Blade heads into the mine and battles Rat-Man vampire called Saragi to death. Blade takes some sacred water before resuming his hunt for Frost.
07	"Day Walker and Mutant" (Claws and Blades)
Transcription: "Dei Uōkā to Myūtanto" (Japanese: デイ・ウォーカーとミュータント)	12 August 2011[14]	24 February 2012[15]
Blade and Mokoto arrive at the unpleasant island of Madripoor. Wolverine teams up with them. The Viper Gang leader Djalal unleashes an army Polong and his men on Blade, while Lucius Isaac destroys the silver ammunition plant and wounds Djalal. Blade, Wolverine and Djalal manage to kill Isaac, then Djalal dies. After that Wolverine goes his separate way to find A.I.M.
08	"Eternal Apocalypse" (Old Wounds, Fresh Blood)
Transcription: "Eien no Mokushiroku" (Japanese: 永遠の黙示録)	19 August 2011[14]	5 March 2012
The Vampire High Council plot to get rid of both Blade and Frost. In Vietnam, during an ambush with Vampire Ninjas, Blade is met by a Marine Veteran, Stan Davis, the last of the Vampire Super Soldier unit. Stan turns down Kikyo's offer to join Frost, so Kikyo kills him. Blade then starts a duel with Kikyo.
09	"Teacher's and Student's Bonds" (The Bond)
Transcription: "Shitei no Kizuna" (Japanese: 師弟の絆)	26 August 2011[14]	12 March 2012
Blade and Kikyo reminisce their sword fight training with Master Tanba while they duel. Tanba arrives only now as a vampire, having been forcefully infected by Deacon Frost while he suffered lung cancer. Blade learns the final sword technique Chaotic Moon and kills Tamba. Frost arrives and captures Blade.
10	"To the Vortex of Sorrows" (Sins of the Father)
Transcription: "Dōkoku no Uzu e" (Japanese: 慟哭の渦へ)	2 September 2011[14]	19 March 2012
In Cambodia, Frost has Blade imprisoned to analyse his sunlight tolerance. Frost briefs Blade on his past tragedy of losing his dedicated son Edgar to a vampire and police did not lift a finger to help. Frost did genetic experiments until he turned himself into a dominant vampire. Makoto and Razor infiltrate the lab, but as Makoto finds Blade, Frost comes up behind her.
11	"Partner" (The Last Sunset)
Transcription: "Aibō" (Japanese: 相棒)	9 September 2011[14]	26 March 2012
Frost bites Makoto, making Blade give Frost the adrenaline he needs. As Makoto puts up a fight, Noah storms in and destroys the lab. Frost escapes with the blood samples. Blade puts Makoto out of her misery before her infection takes over. In the vampire city of Armarot, the High Council battles Frost and his army of hybrid vampires, Blade turning up later. Meanwhile some of Frost's forces overwhelm the High Council's headquarters.
12	"The Other Side of Darkness" (The Final Glory of Deacon Frost)
Transcription: "Yami no Mukōgawa" (Japanese: 闇の向こう側)	16 September 2011[16]	2 April 2012
Kikyo joins Blade's battle in Armarot battling a seven-headed vampire worm, while Noah blows up the Frost's arsenal and uses sacred water to destroy Armarot's power core, which wipes out the vampire forces. Blade fights Frost's daylight vampire mutants, as Frost is mutating himself with Blade's blood. Blade slays the mutant vampires and Frost mutates into a powerful vampire. Blade endures many wounds, but with effort kills Frost for good. In the post-credits, Blade is in London where he saves a woman from the vampires that are followers of the Darkhold.
