https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Incredible_Hulk_(1996_TV_series)


Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
Series overview
Toggle Series overview subsection
Season 1
Season 2
Cast
Crew
Episodes
Toggle Episodes subsection
Season 1 (1996–1997)
Season 2 (1997)
Broadcast and home media
Merchandising
Syndication
Home media
Toggle Home media subsection
VHS releases
DVD releases
References
External links
The Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series)

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The Incredible Hulk

Also known as	The Incredible Hulk and She-Hulk
Genre	Superhero
Action
Adventure
Drama
Based on
Hulk
by
Stan Lee
Jack Kirby
Developed by	UPN Studios
Written by	Greg Johnson
Starring
Neal McDonough
Lou Ferrigno
Luke Perry
Genie Francis
Philece Sampler
John Vernon
Kevin Schon
Michael Donovan (season 2)
Cree Summer (season 2)
Matt Frewer
Mark Hamill
Richard Moll
Kathy Ireland
Narrated by	Richie Johnson (episode 2 opening narration)
Composers	Shuki Levy
Haim Saban
Dean Grinsfelder
Kenneth Burgomaster
Country of origin	United States
Original language	English
No. of seasons	2
No. of episodes	21
Production
Executive producers	Avi Arad
Stan Lee
Rick Ungar
Producers	Dick Sebast (season 1)
Ron Myrick (season 2)
Running time	22 minutes
Production companies
New World Animation (season 1)[1]
Saban Entertainment (season 2)
Marvel Films/Marvel Studios
Saerom Animation
Release
Original network	UPN[1]
Original release	September 8, 1996 –
November 23, 1997
Related
The Incredible Hulk
Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H.
The Incredible Hulk is an American animated television series starring the Marvel Comics character the Hulk. It ran two seasons, for 21 episodes, on the television network UPN from 1996 to 1997. Lou Ferrigno, who portrayed the Hulk on the live-action TV series from 1978 to 1982, provided the Hulk's voice.[2]

The show often featured cameo appearances by characters from other Marvel cartoons of the period. In the second season, the show's format, after UPN decided that season one was too dark, was changed, and to give "female viewers a chance",[3] the network ordered that She-Hulk be made a regular co-star, as a result; the series was officially renamed The Incredible Hulk and She-Hulk for the second season. The second season also featured Grey Hulk, who previously made two cameo appearances in the first season.

Series overview
Season 1
The first season begins with Dr. Robert Bruce Banner already established as the Hulk and on the run,[4] when he is captured by the military after another attempt at ridding himself of the beast within goes awry due to the sabotage of Major Glenn Talbot. He eventually escapes and falls into the hands of the Leader who is served by the Gargoyle and the Abomination. The intervention of mutated cave-dwelling gamma creatures called the Outcasts, Banner's loyal best friend Rick Jones, and the love of his life Betty Ross (like in many comic book incarnations, Betty along with Doc Samson is seen here trying to find a cure for Bruce).

As in the comics, Thunderbolt Ross is a former 4-star turned 3-star general who sends Army forces and Hulkbusters (Dr. Craig Saunders, Jr., and Dr. Samuel J. La Roquette (later Redeemer and Rock, respectively) were also mentioned as members) to capture or destroy the Hulk. He also fights the Hulk personally, using a gamma-powered laser gun created by Bruce against the creature in "Return of the Beast, parts 1 and 2", and again in "Darkness and Light part 3". Talbot was shown acting as the right-hand man of General Ross. He is also shown to have a romantic interest in Betty Ross, but she constantly rejects him because he never does a very good job of hiding his disdain for either Bruce Banner or the Hulk.

Traveling across the nation and beyond, Banner meets kindred spirits also battling similar problems, fights beings of pure energy, and must endure an alliance with the Gargoyle to provide the antidote to a viral epidemic that nearly takes Betty's life and countless others. Not even his family is safe from the terror his hidden powers bring, as his best friend and cousin Jennifer Walters is critically injured by Doctor Doom, forcing Banner to give her a blood transfusion that transforms her into the She-Hulk. Jennifer takes immediate delight in her transformed body and chooses to remain in her She-Hulk form full-time.

Dorian Harewood reprised his role of War Machine from the solo Iron Man animated series in the episode "Helping Hand, Iron Fist". He originally stops Rick Jones from seeing Tony Stark (voiced by Robert Hays, who was also reprising his Iron Man role) at Stark Enterprises, but takes him to Stark after Jones explained that he needed Stark's help to find Banner. He later alerts Stark to the arrival of General Ross, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Gabriel Jones, and a squad of Hulkbusters. War Machine fights some of the Hulkbusters alongside Jones and Iron Man.[5]

Sasquatch appeared in the episode "Man to Man, Beast to Beast" voiced by Peter Strauss (Walter Langkowski) and Clancy Brown (Sasquatch). In that episode, Bruce Banner comes to Canada hoping to find his old friend Dr. Walter Langkowski (Sasquatch) to get a cure for himself and get rid of Hulk forever, only to find that Walter has developed a bestial alter ego while using himself as a test subject to make a breakthrough in gamma radiation. After battling the Hulk, Walter/Sasquatch exiles himself to the wilderness when his actions put Hulk's new friend, a small boy named Taylor, in danger.

Simon Templeman reprised his role of Doctor Doom (who as previously mentioned, critically injured Jennifer Walters/She-Hulk) for guest appearances in two episodes, in which Doom held Washington, D.C. captive, only to be defeated by She-Hulk, whom he later attempted to claim revenge upon. With his appearance on this show, it can be assumed that Doom survived the fate he met on the Fantastic Four series if both shows are to be considered within the same continuity.

Following Doctor Doom's first appearance (he would appear again in the second-season episode "Hollywood Rocks"), came the episode "Fantastic Fortitude" featuring his nemesis, the Fantastic Four. The episode seems to place this show in the same continuity as the Fantastic Four cartoon of the same decade as this episode plays off the Hulk's appearance in the other show. More to the point, Beau Weaver (Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic) and Chuck McCann (Ben Grimm/The Thing) reprised their roles from the Fantastic Four series. In the episode, Mister Fantastic and the other Fantastic Four take their vacation before Hulk, She-Hulk, and Thing fight Leader's Gamma Soldiers commanded by Leader's minion Ogress. Meanwhile, She-Hulk flirted with Thing, but Ben chose to rekindle his relationship with Alicia Masters. And while the Yancy Street Gang was absent in the solo Fantastic Four cartoon itself, they appeared in "Fantastic Fortitude", where they pull a prank on the Thing. After being defeated by the villain Ogress, the Gang, always off camera, distributes leaflets marked "The Thing Whopped by a Woman!".

Also reprising his role from Fantastic Four was John Rhys-Davies as Thor in "Mortal Bounds", while Mark L. Taylor voiced his alter-ego, Donald Blake. Donald as Thor brought Hulk to Detroit so that Bruce Banner can help cure a gamma-based outbreak unintentionally caused by Gargoyle (in his search to cure his disfigurement).

Throughout the season running sub-plots gradually unfold, centering mostly on several of the supporting cast, the season slowly covers the following:

Betty attempts to construct a Gamma Nutrient Bath that will separate Banner from the Hulk with the aid of Doc Samson.
The Leader's fragile association with The Gargoyle slowly breaks down, shattering completely before eventually reforming before the finale. This Gargoyle is the Yuri Topolov version who was always trying to find a cure for his mutation, even allying himself with The Leader. In "Mortal Bounds," he accidentally released a gamma virus (infecting amongst others Betty Ross) in his search for a cure. When Ross was dying from the virus, Gargoyle gave Bruce Banner the antidote, warning that the next time they met he would not be so favorable.
The Leader succeeds in bringing to life obedient mutant Gamma Warriors upon creating them from Hulk's DNA where they also sport cybernetic parts. Two of them were named in the toy line, the female Gamma Warrior with the chainsaw for a right arm was named "Chainsaw" and the two-headed Gamma Warrior with a cannon for a right hand was named "Two-Head." The rest of the Gamma Warriors consist of an unnamed Gamma Warrior with fangs, an unnamed Gamma Warrior with missile launchers on his back, an unnamed Gamma Warrior with a flail for a right hand, and an unnamed metal-jawed Gamma Warrior with rotating blades for a right hand. They are led by the disfigured Ogress.
General Ross' tempered alliance with Agent Gabriel Jones of S.H.I.E.L.D., a ruthless covert operative whose orders were to destroy the creature completely upon capture. In the series finale, "Mission: Incredible", it was revealed that Jones was partially responsible for the accident that turned a double agent named Diana into the Hybrid when she fell into a tank of newly discovered organisms (which S.H.I.E.L.D. was experimenting on) at a S.H.I.E.L.D. Sea Base when she was hired to steal one of those organisms. Also in that episode, he starts hitting on She-Hulk.
These plot threads converge in the three-part season finale "Darkness and Light", where Betty's gamble pays off and the Hulk and Banner are separated. The Hulk emerges virtually mindless and unrestrained. Banner feels responsible and confronts the creature in an armored battlesuit. The Leader finally gains the power of the Hulk, but the savage Hulk personality takes over, driving him mad, and forcing him to abandon the power and restore it to the creature.

Meanwhile, General Ross, betrayed by Agent Jones during the finale, experiences a mental breakdown. Though hospitalized and in critical condition, Ross interrupts Banner's wedding ceremony and threatens to kill Banner, who suffers a heart attack, as the separation from the Hulk finally begins taking its toll. This leads Banner's friends into concluding that he and the Hulk must be merged again, or both will die.

Ross flees but later returns in an attempt to sabotage the re-merge experiment. He is interrupted by Rick, whom he hurls into the vat containing Banner and the Hulk. The experiment malfunctions and the vat erupts; from it emerges a gamma-powered, hulk-like Jones, who escapes into the night, as the distraught but healthy Banner suddenly transforms into the Grey Hulk.

Season 2
The Incredible Hulk and She-Hulk begins where the first season concluded, with the Grey Hulk in the mountains, solely pursued by the still insane Ross. An altercation between the two results in an avalanche that puts Ross in a coma, and knocks out Banner. When Banner comes to, he is arrested and placed on trial, while Rick Jones, almost an afterthought, continues his own reign of terror. Banner's cousin Jennifer, the She-Hulk, tries to help him out in court. After defending the entire courthouse from an attack by the Leader and successfully locating and restoring Rick to normal, both Banner and Jennifer travel together, lying low.

Aside from a small continuation of the premiere episode, the season featured very few ongoing arcs, the only ones of note were the following:

General Ross is hospitalized.
Gargoyle displays a strong affection for She-Hulk.
Rick Jones no longer plays an active role (except in Bruce's memories).
Banner becomes more quick-witted and serene, no longer hunted by the army. He still tries to cure himself of becoming the Hulk.
Whenever Banner transforms, Grey Hulk and Green Hulk fight for control in Banner's mind and the one who wins, breaks out.
The remainder of the season saw Banner and Jennifer either team up with characters such as Doctor Strange, battle Doctor Doom once more, or participate in a fight during Jennifer's high school reunion party (where She-Hulk temporarily changed back to Jennifer). The episode "Mind Over Anti-Matter" features Doctor Strange and She-Hulk journeying into the mind of Bruce Banner when Banner is possessed by an evil demon alien. Banner in the process turns into a monstrous Dark Hulk. She-Hulk provides levity at the sorcerer's expense by referring to him as Doctor Peculiar and other variations of his name. The Grey Hulk's mob persona of "Mr. Fixit" surfaced for a brief appearance.

This season won an Emmy Award for "best audio editing" for the work on the episode "The Lost Village".

Cast
Neal McDonough – Dr. Bruce Banner (all episodes)
Lou Ferrigno – Green Hulk (all episodes)
Michael Donovan – Grey Hulk (5 episodes)
Genie Francis – Betty Ross (first voice, 6 episodes)
Philece Sampler – Betty Ross (second voice, 9 episodes)
Kevin Michael Richardson – Dark Hulk
Luke Perry – Rick Jones (10 episodes)
John Vernon – General Thunderbolt Ross (14 episodes)
Kevin Schon – Major Glenn Talbot, Abomination (first voice, 2 episodes), Samuel Laroquette, Zzzax (season 1 only)
Matt Frewer – Samuel Sterns / Leader (10 episodes)
Mark Hamill – Gargoyle (11 episodes)
Kathy Ireland – Ogress (5 episodes)
Richard Moll – Abomination (second voice, 3 episodes), Homeless Man (season 1, episode 9)
Shadoe Stevens – Doc Samson (season 1; 6 episodes)
Thom Barry – Agent Gabriel Jones (8 episodes)
Lisa Zane – Jennifer Walters / She-Hulk (season 1; 2 episodes)
Cree Summer – Jennifer Walters / She-Hulk (season 2; 8 episodes)
Richard Grieco – Daniel Ketch/Ghost Rider (season 1, episode 5)
Peter Strauss – Dr. Walter Langkowski (season 1, episode 6)
Clancy Brown – Sasquatch (season 1, episode 6)
Michael Horse – Jefferson Whitedeer (season 1, episode 10)
Crew
Stu Rosen – Casting Director
Tom Tatranowicz – Voice Director (season 1)
Jamie Simone – Voice Director (season 2)
Greg Johnson - Story Editor
Episodes
Season 1 (1996–1997)
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date
1	1	"Return of the Beast"	Richard Trueblood	Bob Forward	September 8, 1996
2	2	Leo Sullivan	September 15, 1996
After another attempt to cure himself of the Incredible Hulk fails due to the interference of Major Glenn Talbot, Bruce Banner is taken to Gamma Base, where he is allowed to try another experiment to do so with the help of his lover, Betty Ross. However, the gamma-mutated super genius, the Leader, wants the power of the Hulk for himself and sends the Abomination to capture Banner.

Hulk escapes from the destroyed Gamma Base and encounters The Outcasts, creatures mutated by the very same gamma-irradiated explosion that created him, and Banner hides out with them. Unfortunately, the Abomination finds him and takes him back to the Leader, who attempts to use a siphoning device to transfer the powers of the Hulk into himself.
3	3	"Raw Power"	Dan Thompson	Jess Winfield	September 22, 1996
Another attempt by Banner to get rid of his alter-ego is halted once again and results in nuclear power plant worker Mitch McCutcheon becoming the mutant electric monster Zzzax.
4	4	"Helping Hand, Iron Fist"	Ernesto Lopez	Stewart St. John	September 29, 1996
Banner reaches Los Angeles, hoping to get Tony Stark's help in curing him. But an earlier incident strikes the Hulk with amnesia, and adding to that problem, the Hulkbusters and Gabe Jones show up at Stark Enterprises to capture Banner.
5	5	"Innocent Blood"	Richard Trueblood	Bob Forward	October 6, 1996
In Chicago, the Hulk is pursued not only by the supernatural anti-hero, Ghost Rider, but also Talbot, who has a weapon that may end the Hulk once and for all.

Note: This episode served as a backdoor pilot to an unnamed Ghost Rider animated series.[6]
6	6	"Man to Man, Beast to Beast"	Tom Tataranowicz	Len Wein	October 27, 1996
While in Canada, Banner meets up with a colleague, Walter Langkowski, who he believes might help him rid himself of the Hulk. But Langkowski has a secret of his own.
7	7	"Doomed"	Dan Thompson	Bob Forward	November 3, 1996
Banner visits his cousin, Jen Walters, in Washington, D.C., but he is soon captured by Dr. Doom, who gains control over the Hulk with a mind-control device. But a blood transfusion from Banner to an injured Jen transforms her into the Sensational She-Hulk and Doom now has to deal with two gamma-powered titans!
8	8	"Fantastic Fortitude"	Tom Tataranowicz
Ernesto Lopez	Bob Forward	November 10, 1996
In New York City, Banner, and Jen try to contact the Fantastic Four. However, the Thing is the only member left as the rest of the team is on vacation. And they may need the Thing's help when the Leader and his Gamma Warriors attack!
9	9	"Mortal Bounds"	Ernesto Lopez	Story by : Greg Blair
Teleplay by : Bruce Reid Schaefer	November 17, 1996
Banner might be the only one who can cure a gamma virus in Detroit that the Gargoyle accidentally creates while trying to cure himself. But when the Gargoyle and the Abomination kidnap Banner to help themselves, the Hulk may need the help of the mighty Thor to save the city!
10	10	"And the Wind Cries... Wendigo!"	Tom Tataranowicz
Richard Trueblood	Megeen McLaughlin	November 24, 1996
The Hulk and Ross must work together to save Betty from a supernatural beast called the Wendigo.

Note: Wolverine was slated to appear in this episode, but was cut out due to being on X-Men: The Animated Series.[6]
11	11	"Darkness and Light"	Tom Tataranowicz
Ernesto Lopez	Bob Forward	February 2, 1997
12	12	Richard Trueblood	Steven Granat
Cydne Clark	February 9, 1997
13	13	Dick Sebast	Greg Johnson	February 16, 1997
Betty and Doc Samson succeed in creating the nutrient bath, and manage to separate Banner and the Hulk but Agent Gabriel Jones tries to take the Hulk to be destroyed, causing Doctor Samson to rescue him only to discover that he's unleashed a now mindless Hulk on the world. The Leader finally manages to capture him and take over his body only for his plan to backfire immensely. Banner and the Hulk face off in a climactic showdown, but during the fight, they both feel great pain as it's discovered that the separation is killing them, and to survive, they must be rejoined.
Season 2 (1997)
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date
14	1	"Hulk of a Different Color"	Ron Myrick	Bob Forward	September 21, 1997
Ross confronts the new Gray Hulk and a battle between the two results in Ross landing in a coma, and Banner being arrested. She-Hulk comes to her cousin's aid, but the Leader, now returned to his pre-mutation form, and the Gargoyle have plans for Banner's other half.
15	2	"Down Memory Lane"	Ron Myrick	Meg McLaughlin	September 28, 1997
She-Hulk's high school reunion turns sour, when not only does she start to get tired, but Gargoyle and the Abomination attack.

Note: Stan Lee has a cameo as Cliff Walters, Jennifer's father and Banner's uncle.
16	3	"Mind Over Anti-Matter"	Ron Myrick	John Semper	October 5, 1997
She-Hulk teams up with Dr. Strange when Banner is possessed by an evil entity.
17	4	"They Call Me Mr. Fixit"	Ron Myrick	Bob Forward	October 26, 1997
In Chicago, Banner falls under the sway of the mind controlling crime lord, Allure, who needs Banner for a sinister purpose. But Banner runs afoul with Crusher Creel, Allure's jealous chief enforcer who plans to take out Banner.
18	5	"Fashion Warriors"	Ron Myrick	John Semper	November 2, 1997
She-Hulk and Betty team up with an all female team to stop the Leader and his flunkies when they attack a Miami fashion show.

Note: Lou Ferrigno has an animated cameo in this episode.
19	6	"Hollywood Rocks"	Ron Myrick	Diane Fresco	November 9, 1997
Dr. Doom returns, and steals equipment from Banner that would prevent asteroids from harming the Earth. Meanwhile, She-Hulk gets cast in a movie, but there's more to this production than it seems.
20	7	"The Lost Village"	Ron Myrick	Ann Knapp Austen & Douglas Sloan	November 16, 1997
After receiving a medallion that allows him to turn into the Hulk at will, Banner, Betty, and She-Hulk travel to Tibet to find the land of Anavrin, hoping it might have a way of permanently ridding Banner of both Hulks. But Banner may have to forsake his potential cure in order to stop the cyborg Scimitar from taking over Anavrin.
21	8	"Mission: Incredible"	Ron Myrick	Megeen McLaughlin	November 23, 1997
A creature known as the Hybrid possesses Ross, forcing the Gray Hulk and She-Hulk to join forces with Gabe Jones and S.H.I.E.L.D.

Note: This episode serves as the series finale to The Incredible Hulk.
Broadcast and home media
The show was briefly aired on ABC Family as part of its unnamed pre-JETIX-era action/adventure-oriented programming kids’ morning block, following the release of the live-action movie in 2003, as well as a DVD release. The show also aired on Toon Disney as a part of their primetime action-adventure block, Jetix. The show also became the last program to air on Toon Disney. The series previously aired on Disney XD from February 13, 2009, to March 31, 2012.

An episode of the show was released on the DVD with issue 17 of Jetix Magazine.

In 2008, the series was released on Region 2 DVD in the UK in by Liberation Entertainment as part of a release schedule of Marvel animated series.[7] Currently only two volumes which contain the entire first season were released. Since then the rights then went to Lace International, following Liberation Entertainment's closure. The rights have since been re-acquired by Clear Vision, who re-released the set on July 5, 2010, Season 2 (Incredible Hulk and She-Hulk) was released in the UK on September 6, 2010.

It is currently owned and distributed by The Walt Disney Company, which acquired all Fox Kids-related properties from News Corporation and Saban International in 2001.

All 21 episodes were previously available for streaming on Marvel.com[8] and on Netflix. The series now streams on Disney+.

Merchandising
Toys based on the show were produced.

Syndication
Following the success of the live-action Marvel films featuring the Hulk, The Walt Disney Company began airing the series in syndication.[citation needed]

Home media
The entire series is available on iTunes, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu Plus and Vudu.

The series became available on Disney's streaming service Disney+ upon its launch on November 12, 2019.[9]

VHS releases
Region 1 During the series' run, some episodes were released on VHS. These were from 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment.

VHS Name	Episode Titles	Release Date	Publisher	Stock Number	Notes
Return of the Beast	"Return of the Beast" Parts 1 & 2	July 2, 1997[10]	20th Century Fox Home Entertainment	4190	Trailers:
FOX Kids Video Promo (1997)
Casper: A Spirited Beginning (1997)
FOX Toons Interactive CD-ROM Promo (1997)
In the late 1990s, another selection of VHS compilations were released by Marvel Films/New World Entertainment (these tapes were distributed in Canada by Telegenic Entertainment). These releases featured episodes edited into 80 minute movies based on the particular story arc.

VHS Name	Episode Titles	Release Date	Publisher	Stock Number	Notes
Return of the Beast	"Return of the Beast" Parts 1 & 2	June 17, 1997[11]	Marvel Films/New World Entertainment	03003	This Tape Is In SP Mode.
Contains 80 Minutes Of A Feature Length Movie.

Contains The Following Previews At The Beginning:
Spider-Man: Revenge of the Goblins (1994)
Dragon Flyz: Day of the Dragon (1996)

Special Bonus: Includes two episodes of Fantastic Four: "Prey of the Black Panther"
"Doomsday"

Raw Power	"Raw Power"
"Helping Hand, Iron Fist"	September 9, 1997[12]	03013	This Tape Is In SP Mode.
Contains 80 Minutes Of A Feature Length Movie.

Contains The Following Previews At The Beginning:
Dragon Flyz: Day of the Dragon (1996)
Spider-Man: Revenge of the Goblins (1994)

Special Bonus: Includes two episodes of Fantastic Four: "The Silver Surfer and the Coming of Galactus" Parts 1 & 2

And Contains Various Commercials At The End Of The Movie:
Spider-Man: Web Splashers Action Figures Advertisement (1997)
Spider-Man: Spider Wars Playset and Action Figures Advertisement (1996)

Innocent Blood	"Innocent Blood"
"Man to Man, Beast to Beast"	November 4, 1997[13]	03023	This Tape Is In SP Mode.
Contains 80 Minutes Of A Feature Length Movie.

Contains The Following Previews At The Beginning:
Franklin (1997)
Spider-Man: Revenge of the Goblins (1994)

Special Bonus: Includes the final two episodes of Iron Man: "The Origin of Iron Man" Parts 1 & 2

And Contains Various Commercials At The End Of The Movie:
Spider-Man: Web Splashers Action Figures Advertisement (1997)
Spider-Man: Spider Wars Playset and Action Figures Advertisement (1996)

To date, the only VHS and DVD releases of the series in the U.S. have been several volume sets from Buena Vista Home Entertainment that feature 4-5 episodes each.

DVD releases
Title	Release Date	Stock Number
The Incredible Hulk[14]	17 June 2003	29044
29055
Episodes:
Return of the Beast Parts 1 & 2
Raw Power
Helping Hand, Iron Fist
Features[15]

1966 Classic Bonus Episode: "The Origin of The Hulk"/"Enter the Gorgon"/"To Be a Man"
Region 2 In the UK, Sweden, and Germany, 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment and Clear Vision Ltd. has released all six seasons on DVD as of November 24, 2008 and September 6, 2010.

DVD Name	Ep #	Release Date
Season 1 - Volume 1	6	May 26, 2008[16]
Season 1 - Volume 2	7	November 10, 2008[17]
Complete Season 2	8	November 24, 2008[18]
The Incredible Hulk Complete Box Set (1996)	21	November 24, 2008[19]
Complete Season 1	13	July 5, 2010[20]
Complete Season 2	8	September 6, 2010[21]
The Complete Collection	73	February 7, 2011[22]
Other releases

A Canadian VHS containing three episodes from the "Raw Power" episodes. This is a reissue of the 1997 Marvel-New World/Telegenic VHS release (and it was mastered from one of those VHS releases); as a "Bonus" two episodes from the 1990s Fantastic Four TV series are included, just like on the VHS release. (Please note there are no audio/subtitle selections.)
Canadians also received another DVD release of the first season two-parter "Return of the Beast". This was a re-release of a 2002 VHS release by Disney; the video quality of the episodes on the DVD is that of a VHS transfer. There are no bonus features or audio/subtitle selections on this DVD either.
A VCD release by Magnavision Home Video.
A boxed set of all the DVDs released in Poland, simply entitled "The Incredible Hulk: 1 DVD Set". The front of the box features the same graphics as "Return of the Beast".
Several two-episode DVDs released by Marvel in 2003 prior to the acquisition by Disney.
Three DVDs with two episodes each were released regionally for Serbia and Montenegro, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and North Macedonia with Serbian, Croatian and Slovenian dubs on them in 2003.
The entire first season is available on Xbox Live and iTunes through Disney XD. All five seasons are also currently available for digital purchase on Vudu.
The entire series is available on Amazon Video.
There were also unlicensed DVDs that had The Adventure Continues on them that contained two episodes from most of the movies that were released by Marvel Films/New World Entertainment. For example, one was Fantastic Four - The Silver Surfer and the Coming of Galactus, which contained two episodes which were "The Silver Surfer and the Coming of Galactus" Parts 1 & 2, a two-part story episode from the second season, making it like a movie based on the toy line, Fantastic Four: Galactus.
References
 Goldman, Michael. "Stan Lee: Comic Guru". Animation World Magazine. Animation World Network. Archived from the original on April 25, 2014. Retrieved May 5, 2011.
 "Hulk Smash Television!". IGN. Archived from the original on 2012-03-27. Retrieved 2010-09-09.
 Toonzone: Marvel Animation Age: Interview with Dick Sebast
 The Incredible Hulk Animated: Other Hulk Cartoons
 Erickson, Hal (2005). Television Cartoon Shows: An Illustrated Encyclopedia, 1949 Through 2003 (2nd ed.). McFarland & Co. pp. 426–428. ISBN 978-1476665993.
 "DRG4's Incredible Hulk the Animated Series Page".
 Liberation Entertainment Archived 2008-04-23 at the Wayback Machine
 "Videos The Incredible Hulk (1996) | Browse Videos From The Incredible Hulk (1996) | Videos | Marvel.com". marvel.com. Archived from the original on 2011-01-03.
 Basically Everything Coming to Disney+ in the U.S. | Start Streaming November 12 on YouTube
 The Incredible Hulk: Return of the Beast [VHS]: Movies & TV. 2017-05-13. ISBN 978-0793941902.
 "The Incredible Hulk: Return Beast VHS]: Movies & TV". Amazon. 29 January 2002. Retrieved 2017-05-13.
 "The Incredible Hulk: Raw Power VHS]: Movies & TV". Amazon. Retrieved 2017-05-13.
 "The Incredible Hulk: Innocent Blood VHS]: Movies & TV". Amazon.ca. Retrieved 2017-05-13.
 "The Incredible Hulk VHS/DVD". usask.ca. Retrieved 2010-03-28.
 "The Incredible Hulk at dvdempire". dvdempire.com. Retrieved 2010-04-07.
 "The Incredible Hulk - Season One Part One (Marvel Originals Series - 90s) [DVD] [1996]: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. 2008-05-26. Retrieved 2010-09-20.
 "The Incredible Hulk - Season One Part Two (Marvel Originals Series - 90s) [DVD] [1996]: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. 2008-11-10. Retrieved 2010-09-20.
 "The Incredible Hulk - Complete Season Two (Marvel Originals Series - 90s) [DVD] [1996]: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. 2008-11-24. Retrieved 2010-09-20.
 "The Incredible Hulk Complete Box Set (1996) [DVD]: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. 2008-11-24. Retrieved 2010-09-20.
 "The Incredible Hulk 1996 Complete Season 1 [DVD]: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. Retrieved 2010-09-20.
 "The Incredible Hulk 1996 Complete Season 2 [DVD]: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. 2010-09-06. Retrieved 2010-09-20.
 "The Incredible Hulk DVD: Amazon.co.uk: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. Retrieved 2012-02-06.
External links
icon	Television portal
flag	United States portal
icon	Speculative fiction portal
icon	1990s portal
The Incredible Hulk (1996 TV series) at IMDb
DRG4's The Incredible Hulk: The Animated Series Page
epguides.com - Titles and Air Dates Guide
International Catalogue of Superheroes
Pazsaz Entertainment Network: The Incredible Hulk
Marvel Animation Age - The Incredible Hulk
Incredible Hulk 1996 Cartoon Series - Synopses and screenshots Archived 2008-07-03 at the Wayback Machine
vte
The Hulk
vte
She-Hulk
vte
Animated TV series based on Marvel Comics properties
vte
UPN Kids
Categories: Hulk (comics) television series1990s American animated television series1996 American television series debuts1997 American television series endingsAmerican children's animated action television seriesAmerican children's animated adventure television seriesAmerican children's animated drama television seriesAmerican children's animated science fantasy television seriesAmerican children's animated superhero television seriesAnimated series produced by Marvel StudiosAnimated television series based on Marvel ComicsTelevision series about nuclear war and weaponsTelevision series by Marvel ProductionsTelevision series by Saban EntertainmentTelevision shows based on Marvel ComicsUPN KidsUPN original programmingWorks by Len Wein
This page was last edited on 8 August 2023, at 02:36 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
Toggle limited content width
