https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Avengers:_United_They_Stand


Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
Plot
Cast
Toggle Cast subsection
Additional voices
Appearing in the comics
Production
Episodes
Toggle Episodes subsection
Proposed second season
Home media
Merchandise and media
Toggle Merchandise and media subsection
Toys
Comic book
References
External links
The Avengers: United They Stand

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article needs additional citations for verification. (April 2023)
This article possibly contains original research. (April 2023)
The Avengers: United They Stand

Genre	Superhero
Action
Adventure
Based on
Avengers
by
Stan Lee
Jack Kirby
Developed by	Eric Lewald
Julia Lewald
Directed by	Ron Myrick
Voices of	Linda Ballantyne
Tony Daniels
Graham Harley
Hamish McEwan
Ray Landry
Caroly Larson
Stavroula Logothettis
Martin Roach
Ron Rubin
John Stocker
Rod Wilson
Lenore Zann
Narrated by	George Johnson
Opening theme	"The Avengers: United They Stand" by Sky Flyers
Composers	Jeremy Sweet
Deddy Tzur
Shuki Levy
Kussa Mahchi
Country of origin	United States
Canada
No. of episodes	13
Production
Executive producers	Avi Arad
Eric S. Rollman
Stan Lee
Producer	Ron Myrick
Running time	22 minutes
Production companies	Marvel Studios
Saban Entertainment
Fox Family Worldwide
Saerom Animation
Release
Original network	Fox Kids
Original release	October 30, 1999 –
February 26, 2000
Related
The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
The Avengers: United They Stand (also known simply as The Avengers) is an animated series based on the Marvel Comics superhero team Avengers.[1] It consists of 13 episodes, which originally premiered on October 30, 1999, and was produced by Avi Arad. It was canceled on February 26, 2000.[2]

The series features two leaders of the team, Ant-Man and the Wasp, and introduces Wonder Man, Tigra, Hawkeye, Falcon, Vision and Scarlet Witch.[3]

Plot
The series features a team broadly based on the roster for the 1984 Avengers spin-off series, the West Coast Avengers, composed of the Wasp, Wonder Man, Tigra, Hawkeye and Scarlet Witch (Hawkeye and Scarlet Witch were also both in the Iron Man animated series as members of Force Works) led by Ant-Man/Giant-Man, with the Falcon and Vision joining in the opening two-parter. For undetermined reasons (perhaps due to their rights being tied up in planned movie projects), the Avengers' "Big Three" were not regular fixtures in the series – Captain America and Iron Man made only guest appearances in one episode each, while Thor did not appear outside of the opening titles (though he was intended to make an appearance in a future season if the show was renewed). Captain America appears in one episode "Command Decision". The story involves the Masters of Evil and a flashback to Captain America defeating Baron Zemo. Meanwhile, Iron Man in the episode "Shooting Stars", helps the Avengers thwart the Zodiac's plan to send a radioactive satellite crashing to Earth.

The series features many of the Avengers' major comic book foes, including Ultron, Kang the Conqueror, Egghead, the Masters of Evil (consisting of Baron Helmut Zemo, Tiger Shark, Absorbing Man, Moonstone, Whirlwind, Boomerang, Cardinal, and Dragonfly) the Grim Reaper (this version wore full body armor and a helmet featuring a skull-like paint job and a scythe-like weapon on his armor; his ties to Wonder Man remained intact) and the Zodiac, as well as associated characters the Swordsman, the Circus of Crime, Namor, Attuma, Agatha Harkness, and the Salem's Seven.

The show made several fan-friendly references to aspects of the characters' comic book history that were otherwise not expanded upon for the uninitiated; such as Falcon and Captain America's partnership, Hawkeye's partial deafness, or Namor's half-breed nature. Beyond this, the series bore little in the way of similarity to the comics, mainly due to its wholesale redesign of the cast, characterized by asymmetrical costume design and the most infamous element of the series – Ant-Man, Wasp, Hawkeye and Falcon all wore suits of battle armor. Also in this incarnation, Tigra is an athlete who underwent genetic treatments to give her a competitive edge. These treatments went awry, leaving her with the form and abilities of a tiger.

Cast

Part of the Avengers roster. Left to right: Tigra, Falcon, Scarlet Witch, Hawkeye and Vision.
Linda Ballantyne as Janet Van Dyne / Wasp
Tony Daniels as Clint Barton / Hawkeye, Aries, Aquarius, Brutacus
Graham Harley as Edwin Jarvis
Ray Landry as Raymond Sikorski
Carolyn Larson as The Computer
Stavroula Logothettis as Wanda Maximoff / Scarlet Witch
Hamish McEwan as Simon Williams / Wonder Man
Gerry Mendicino as Cornelius Van Lunt / Taurus
Martin Roach as Samuel "Sam" Wilson / Falcon
Ron Ruben as Vision
John Stocker as Ultron
Rod Wilson as Dr. Hank Pym / Ant-Man / Giant-Man
Lenore Zann as Greer Grant Nelson / Tigra
Additional voices
Denis Akiyama as Dr. Chris Johnson (in "Kang")
Philip Akin as Attuma
Oliver Becker as Carl "Crusher" Creel / Absorbing Man
Wayne Best as Scorpio
Normand Bissonette as Maynard Tiboldt / Ringmaster
Dan Chameroy as Steve Rogers / Captain America
Conrad Coates as Remnant Leader (in "Remnants")
Rob Cowan as Frederick "Fred" Myers / Boomerang
Carlos Diaz as Todd Arliss / Tiger Shark
Francis Diakowsky as Tony Stark / Iron Man
Paul Essiembre as Jacques Duquesne / Swordsman
Nigel Hamer as Gemini: Male Head
Ken Kramer as Kang the Conqueror
Robert Latimer as Elihas Starr / Egghead
Julie Lemieux as Gemini: Female Head
Stephen Ouimette as Nicholas Scratch
Susan Roman as Karla Sofen / Moonstone, Dragonfly
Tate Roswell as Andrew Wilson (in "Kang")
Allan Royal as Grim Reaper
Elizabeth Shepherd as Agatha Harkness
Phillip Shepherd as Baron Zemo
Raoul Trujillo as Namor
Peter Wildman as Donald Clendenon / Cardinal
Peter Windrem as David Cannon / Whirlwind
Appearing in the comics
Other characters that appeared in the comic but not the show:

Natalia Romanova / Black Widow No. 2 and 5[4]
Baron Strucker #2[5]
HYDRA #2[5]
Nathan Garrett / Black Knight #4[6] – Nathan Garrett appears and attempts to steal a device from the organization A.I.M.
Doctor Doom #4[6] – He attempted to execute the Avengers and Black Knight.
A.I.M. #5[4]
The Collector[7][8] – He chooses to preserve a good population of Earth as he feels the planet is on the verge of ending. Although the Avengers escape, some citizens on Earth prefer to stay with the Collector.
Production
In 1997, Roland Poindexter, the supervising executive in charge of animated series at Fox Kids Network, approached two X-Men (1992) animated series writers named Robert N. Skir and Marty Isenberg to develop a proposal for an Avengers cartoon. After creating a detailed Bible that included a 13-episode story arc, the network decided a Captain America series would be more suited to its schedule. But before Fox Kids could green light either series, Marvel went into bankruptcy, effectively ending the development process for all its shows. It wasn't until after the publisher's financial woes were resolved in late 1998 that Poindexter revived interest in the Avengers project, using the series bible written by Robert N. Skir and Marty Isenberg; because Skir and Isenberg were already committed to spearhead Beast Machines: Transformers, the network approached former X-Men animated series story editor Eric Lewald and his wife, Julia, to come on board as story editors for the series. In January 1999, Fox finally gave the official go-ahead and Ron Myrick was hired to oversee the show's visual development.

The Avengers roster for the cartoon is loosely based upon the roster for the 1984 Avengers spin-off series The West Coast Avengers. Notably absent from the lineup are the traditional core members: Captain America, Iron Man, and Thor, who were originally prohibited from appearing in the series due to licensing issues. Story editor Eric Lewald has commented on their absence and had said "We want this to be a team of Avengers, instead of making it 'Captain America and the Avengers' or 'Thor and the Avengers. We prefer to have a balanced team of superheroes rather than a superstar on the team."[citation needed] However, Captain America and Iron Man each made one guest appearance (in "Command Decision" and "Shooting Stars", respectively), while Thor did not appear outside of the opening sequence.

The decision to pair Scarlet Witch and Wonder Man up as a couple was based upon the storyline then running in the Avengers comic in which Scarlet Witch resurrects Wonder Man to serve as her protector after an evil sorceress transforms the planet into a medieval world under her control. During their time together, the two fall in love and become a couple.

In the promotional images of the series, and the action figure photos, Hawkeye didn't wear a mask. However, in the series and the final version of the figure, he wore a mask similar to that he wore during the Avengers: The Crossing storyline.

This series was commissioned by Fox in the wake of the success of Batman Beyond (1999). In order to attempt to emulate Batman Beyond, changes were made to the Avengers franchise as the series was set in the future. Myrick explained that they were "setting the series about twenty-five years in the future" and that "New York City will be a mix of future and contemporary looks, sort of the way the city looked in the movie Blade Runner (1982) but not as dark." The Avengers were also featured wearing elaborate armor costumes when they went into battle. Myrick explained, "The armor will give them the capability to go into different environments like extreme heat or cold, or underwater, or outer space, and it'll enhance their abilities." The Avengers also featured an "A" on their costumes that was like a Star Trek comlink, where they could hit it and communicate with each other and the mansion's computer.

Episodes
The following list reflects the correct viewing order of The Avengers: United They Stand episodes, according to Marvel's official site.

No.	Title	Written by	Original air date
1	"Avengers Assemble: Part 1"	Michael Edens	October 30, 1999
Ultron creates the Vision and sends him to destroy Ant-Man.

Note: In addition to the close-ups on the pictures of Captain America, Thor, and Iron Man near the beginning, pictures of Beast, Black Panther, Hulk, Namor, Quicksilver, and two others can be seen in both conference room scenes.
2	"Avengers Assemble: Part 2"	Michael Edens	November 6, 1999
Wonder Man is put on life support and the Avengers must take over where he fell. Falcon joins the team and Vision is reprogrammed with a copy of Wonder Man's mind.
3	"Kang"	Brooks Wachtel	November 13, 1999
After being accidentally freed from his urn prison by Dr. Chris Johnson and Falcon's nephew Andrew, Kang the Conqueror starts to create havoc while looking for a special crystal obelisk from ancient Egypt, an object which would allow him to go back into the future and oppress millions of people. The Avengers must protect the world—past, present, and future....at all costs.
4	"Comes a Swordsman"	John Loy	November 27, 1999
Hawkeye must face his past and his old mentor the Swordsman. Meanwhile, the Avengers face a group of thieves led by Ringmaster, who has robbed a biological weapons study lab.

Note: The paper that Hawkeye glances at is the Daily Bugle.
5	"Remnants"	Michael Edens	December 4, 1999
Strange remnants of Ultron's previous experiments create terror on an island where France's main nuclear testing facility exists. The Avengers race to control or destroy these machines before they start a nuclear war, not counting on Ultron paying a visit as well.

Note: A picture of Beast briefly appears on the wall during the Avengers' meeting.
6	"Command Decision"	Len Wein	December 11, 1999
The Avengers must stop the Masters of Evil (consisting of Baron Helmut Zemo, Tiger Shark, Absorbing Man, Moonstone, Whirlwind, Boomerang, Cardinal, and Dragonfly) who are trying to steal a shipment of highly dangerous government weapons. To make matters more difficult, Captain America comes on the scene, leaving Ant-Man to work out his leadership issues while still focusing on the job at hand.
7	"To Rule Atlantis"	Len Uhley	December 18, 1999
When mysterious earthquakes are artificially caused, the Avengers suspect Prince Namor of Atlantis, so they go under the sea to investigate. They discover that Namor is innocent and Attuma is using the Dynamo machine to create earthquakes in his plot to conquer Atlantis. During this time, Vision is jealous of Namor's kind and loving expression toward the Scarlet Witch.
8	"Shooting Stars"	Bruce Reid Schaefer	January 22, 2000
The whole world is threatened when satellites are blasted out of their orbits. Learning that the criminal organization Zodiac is behind the chaos, the Avengers call upon Iron Man for help and rocket into space to stop the blackmail of Earth's cities.
9	"What a Vision Has to Do"	John Loy	January 29, 2000
Vision volunteers to be "bait" to allow himself to be captured by Ultron as a way for the Avengers to track him to the villain's lair. It works, but Ultron is ready for them.

Note: This is Ultron's last appearance in the series.
10	"Egg-Streme Vengeance"	Len Uhley	February 5, 2000
Egghead initiates a plot to destroy his archrival Ant-Man by making his "Pym particles" go crazy. The Avengers must prevent Ant-Man from shrinking to subatomic oblivion.

Note: The name of the entertainment-news host that appears on the TV is Ron Myrick, the given name of the show's producer and director.
11	"The Sorceress's Apprentice"	Michael Edens	February 12, 2000
Scarlet Witch, along with Vision, visits Agatha Harkness to see what she can do for Wonder Man, but she is kidnapped by Nicholas Scratch and the Salem's Seven. She calls the rest of the Avengers to help her, but they are busy fighting the Grim Reaper who attacks in retaliation for what happened to his brother Wonder Man. Because of this, Scarlet Witch and Vision will have to rescue her without them.
12	"Earth and Fire: Part 1"	Steven Melching	February 19, 2000
Following Scarlet Witch successfully restoring Wonder Man to good health, something is dangerously affecting the Earth's magnetic fields. Wasp realizes that her father's old business partner Cornelius Van Lundt is behind the disruptions, and must face her past to save the planet.
13	"Earth and Fire: Part 2"	Jan Strnad	February 26, 2000
Someone wants an ancient meteorite buried beneath an island, the reason for the disruptions in the Earth's magnetic fields. The Avengers have a final showdown with the Zodiac.
Proposed second season
Tentative plans for additional episodes were made that featured Hawkeye's return to the carnival where he grew up as well as an episode exploring how the Scarlet Witch discovered her powers. Plans also included guest appearances by the X-Men, utilizing the Toronto-based cast from the 1990s series as a few of them already worked on this show. Other proposed episode plots include Bruce Banner appearing to help the team when Ant-Man fell ill to gamma radiation exposure during a fight with the villain Egghead, Thor and his brother Loki in a two-part episode (there was even a Thor toy made for the show's line of action figures). However, all plans were scrapped when the show had stopped production.[9]

Home media
On May 21, 2007 Maximum Entertainment released the complete series on Region 2 DVD in the UK. The 2-disc boxset features all 13 episodes of the series.[10]

Merchandise and media
Toys
Toy Biz released a line of action figures for the cartoon series. The figures included Ant-Man, Captain America, Falcon, Hawkeye, Kang, Tigra, Vision, Ultron, Wasp and Wonder Man. Air Glider and Sky Cycle vehicle toys were also produced. In the promotional images of the series, and the action figure photos, Hawkeye didn't wear a mask. However, in the series and the final version of the figure, he wore a mask similar to that he wore during the Avengers: The Crossing storyline.

Comic book
The Avengers: United They Stand

cover of The Avengers: United They Stand No. 4
Publication information
Publisher	Marvel Comics
Format	Ongoing series
Publication date	November 1999 – June 2000
No. of issues	7
Main character(s)	Avengers
Creative team
Written by	Ty Templeton
Derec Aucoin
The Avengers: United They Stand comic book series by Ty Templeton and Derec Aucoin was published to accompany the series. Due to low sales it lasted only seven issues.

The first two issues are set before the series premiere, Avengers Assemble, Part 1 & 2. No. 1 has the Avengers injured by an early version of Ultron. This issue was used to explain the armor worn by Hawkeye, Wasp and the Falcon in the series, which uses Pym Particles to reduce the pain caused by injury. It is mentioned by Hawkeye that Hank built his own armor after his legs were broken by Dragon Man, and felt no pain in his legs until he removed the armor. No. 3 takes place after the premiere as the Vision is being interviewed about his membership. He is also briefed on how Wonder Man and Hawkeye joined the team.

The Black Panther would appear in No. 1 and 6–7 of the series. In No. 1 he is among the Avengers who are injured by Ultron. Because of that, he refuses to rejoin the team until Hank steps down from being leader. Captain America appears in #6–7 as well. Quicksilver is mentioned twice in the series. In issue 1, Wanda is shown writing a letter to him. Issue 3 shows him in the flashback alongside Captain America, Hawkeye and Scarlet Witch.

References
 Fritz, Steve (August 4, 1999). "New Series Aims for X-Men, Batman Level of Quality". USA: Mania. Archived from the original on April 20, 2000. Retrieved May 13, 2011.
 Perlmutter, David (2018). The Encyclopedia of American Animated Television Shows. Rowman & Littlefield. pp. 51–52. ISBN 978-1538103739.
 Erickson, Hal (2005). Television Cartoon Shows: An Illustrated Encyclopedia, 1949 Through 2003 (2nd ed.). McFarland & Co. pp. 101–102. ISBN 978-1476665993.
 "GCD :: Issue :: Avengers United They Stand No. 5". Comics.org. Retrieved December 29, 2010.
 "GCD :: Issue :: Avengers United They Stand No. 2". Comics.org. Retrieved December 29, 2010.
 "GCD :: Issue :: Avengers United They Stand No. 4". Comics.org. Retrieved December 29, 2010.
 "GCD :: Issue :: Avengers United They Stand No. 6". Comics.org. Retrieved December 29, 2010.
 "GCD :: Issue :: Avengers United They Stand No. 7". Comics.org. Retrieved December 29, 2010.
 https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0203247/trivia[user-generated source]
 "The Avengers: United They Stand - DVD - Catawiki". www.catawiki.com. Retrieved 2020-02-26.
External links
icon	Television portal
flag	United States portal
icon	Speculative fiction portal
icon	1990s portal
The Avengers: United They Stand at IMDb
Avengers Forever: Animated Avengers Cartoon
vte
Avengers
vte
Animated TV series based on Marvel Comics properties
vte
Ant-Man and the Wasp
vte
Fox Kids
Categories: Avengers (comics) television seriesFox KidsFox Broadcasting Company original programming1999 American television series debuts2000 American television series endings1990s American animated television series2000s American animated television series1999 Canadian television series debuts2000 Canadian television series endings1990s Canadian animated television series2000s Canadian animated television seriesAnimated television series based on Marvel ComicsAnimated series produced by Marvel StudiosAmerican children's animated action television seriesAmerican children's animated adventure television seriesAmerican children's animated superhero television seriesCanadian children's animated action television seriesCanadian children's animated adventure television seriesCanadian children's animated superhero television seriesTelevision shows based on Marvel ComicsTelevision series by Saban EntertainmentWorks by Len Wein
This page was last edited on 18 July 2023, at 06:40 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
Toggle limited content width
