https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantastic_Four:_World%27s_Greatest_Heroes


Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
Airing
Plot
Cast
Toggle Cast subsection
Guest stars
Episodes
Home releases
References
External links
Fantastic Four: World's Greatest Heroes

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. (November 2014)
This article needs additional citations for verification. (August 2015)
Fantastic Four: World's Greatest Heroes

Genre	Action
Adventure
Science fiction
Superhero
Based on
Fantastic Four
by
Stan Lee
Jack Kirby
Developed by	Craig Kyle
Christopher Yost
Directed by	Franck Michel
Voices of	Hiro Kanagawa
Lara Gilchrist
Christopher Jacot
Brian Dobson
Sam Vincent
Composer	Noam Kaniel
Country of origin	United States
Canada
France
Original languages	English
French
No. of seasons	1
No. of episodes	26
Production
Executive producers
Christophe di Sabatino
Benoît di Sabatino
Nicolas Atlan
Avi Arad
Craig Kyle
Eric S. Rollman
Robin Lyons
Co-executive producer:
Stan Lee
For Cartoon Network:
Suzanne Berman
Daniel Lennard
Editors	Bertrand Martineu
Benoit Tricot
Valerie Chappellet
Sandrine Mercier
Running time	21-22 minutes
Production companies	Marvel Entertainment
MoonScoop Group
Release
Original network
France:
M6
United Kingdom:
Cartoon Network
United States:
Cartoon Network
Nicktoons
Original release	September 2, 2006 –
February 25, 2010
Related
Fantastic Four (1994 TV series)
Fantastic Four: World's Greatest Heroes is an animated television series based on the Marvel Comics' Fantastic Four comic book series. This is the team's fourth foray into animation. The series is co-produced by American company Marvel Entertainment and French company MoonScoop Group, with the participation of M6 and Cartoon Network Europe, and distributed by Taffy Entertainment

Airing
In the United States, the show had an erratic airing schedule on Cartoon Network, having premiered as part of Toonami on September 2, 2006. It ran for only eight of the season's 26 episodes before being pulled. It subsequently returned to the network starting June 9, 2007, shortly before the release of the film Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer. The second launch of the show aired only nine episodes, leaving nine installments not televised in the USA. The show aired on Boomerang for a brief time before moving to Nicktoons in 2009 for the final episodes.[1] The series was produced in 16:9 widescreen, although it was letterboxed or cropped when broadcast.

Plot
World's Greatest Heroes is not directly connected to any of the previous iterations of the Fantastic Four, telling its own version of the team's origin and their encounters with their rogues gallery. Unlike its 1994 predecessor, which consisted almost entirely of straight or modified reinterpretations of classic Fantastic Four comic book stories, World's Greatest Heroes features mostly original stories, though elements from various comic iterations of the Fantastic Four were used in the series.

Cast
Hiro Kanagawa - Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic
Lara Gilchrist - Susan "Sue" Storm/Invisible Woman
Christopher Jacot - Jonathan "Johnny" Spencer Storm/Human Torch
Brian Dobson - Benjamin "Ben" Grimm/The Thing, Flatman
Sam Vincent - H.E.R.B.I.E., Trapster, Peter Parker
Paul Dobson - Victor Von Doom/Doctor Doom, Mole Man, Captain Ultra, Doombots
Sunita Prasad - Alicia Masters
Guest stars
Mark Acheson - Attuma
Michael Adamthwaite - Namor
Don Brown - Henry Peter Gyrich
Trevor Devall - Diablo
Michael Dobson - Ronan the Accuser, Mr. Bonner-Davis
Brian Drummond - Agent Pratt
Laura Drummond - Courtney Bonner-Davis
Mark Gibbon - Hulk
Jonathan Holmes - Wizard
Andrew Kavadas - Dr. Bruce Banner
David Kaye - Tony Stark/Iron Man
Terry Klassen - Impossible Man
Scott McNeil - Annihilus
Colin Murdock - Willie Lumpkin
Peter New - Rupert the Geek
John Novak - Supreme Intelligence
Mark Oliver - Cmd. Kl'rt/Super-Skrull
John Payne - Hank Pym/Ant-Man
Alvin Sanders - Phillip Master/Puppet Master
Rebecca Shoichet - Jennifer Walters/She-Hulk, Squirrel Girl
Venus Terzo - Lucia von Bardas
Lee Tockar - Terminus
Episodes
No.	Title	Written by	Storyboarded by	Original air date	Production
code
1	"Doomsday"	Christopher Yost	Olivier Poirette and Franck Michel	September 16, 2006 (U.S.)	101
Reed is accused of purposely exposing the Fantastic Four to cosmic rays. He soon finds out that the paper has been altered by Dr. Doom who plans to open another dimension.
2	"Molehattan"	Avi Arad (story)
Chris Hicks and Francis Lombard	Olivier Poirette	September 4, 2009 (U.S.)	102
After kidnapping Ben, Mole Man attempts to get the Thing to join forces with him and his Moloids to create an underground paradise where appearances don't matter.
3	"Trial by Fire"	Bob Forward	Yacine Elghorri and Laurent Delion	September 2, 2006	103
After destroying a robot, Johnny inexplicably disappears. He finds himself in a stadium filled with aliens, where he has been put on trial for crimes against the Kree Empire, with Ronan the Accuser acting as judge. Meanwhile, Ben attempts to entertain the guests at a charity event. Reed is summoned to act as Johnny's lawyer while Ben and Sue are summoned as witnesses. Unfortunately, Ben and Sue's testimonies fail to help Johnny's case. Johnny is sentenced to immediate execution by robotic creatures. Ben, Sue, and Reed fight the robot executioners, one of which is accidentally thrown into the crowd. Johnny protects a Kree child in the audience from the errant robot, which inspires the crowd to demand that Johnny be exonerated and released. Feeling humiliated at having to appease the crowd, Ronan releases Johnny. The Kree return to their home world whereupon Ronan is banished from the Kree Empire, while the Supreme Intelligence notes that the Fantastic Four may be useful against the Skrull.

Note: In this episode, the opening theme music has been pitch-shifted to a noticeably lower key.
4	"Doomed"	Rob Loos and George Taweel	Christophe Pittet	September 9, 2006	104
The four return from extinguishing a fire that Johnny started, with Ben and Sue upset with him. Johnny apologizes, saying that he'll do anything to make it up to them. Doctor Doom switches bodies with Reed by injecting into him anesthesia. With Reed stuck in Doom's body, he slowly escapes the confines of Doom's lair. The next day, Johnny wakes up and finds a camera crew in his room. Sue explains that, as payback for yesterday, Johnny must be followed around by 'A Day in the Life' so viewers can find out what a day in the life of the Fantastic Four is like. When Doom, as Reed, tells Sue to cancel his lectures, the three figure out something's up. Reed, as Doom, shows up at the Baxter Building and is greeted by the four. Believing him to be Doom, they trap him. Reed eventually convinces Sue to trust him and together they stop Doom from turning the Baxter Building into a weapon while also switching their bodies back.
5	"Puppet Master"	Joseph Kelly (story)
Rob Loos and George Taweel	Luc Blanchard	June 16, 2007	105
Alicia's stepfather acquires a supply of clay irradiated from a fallen piece of Reed's ill-fated space station that allows him to control others as the Puppet Master.
6	"Zoned Out"	Bob Forward
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Luis Ruiz	October 28, 2006	106
Things take a turn for the worse when Johnny gives his friend Frankie an unauthorized tour of Reed's lab. When Frankie is sucked into another dimension, Johnny goes in after her to prevent anyone from finding out. But as he does so, a small bug comes through the dimensional portal. Susan, Ben, and Reed now have to deal with the bug as it multiplies and slowly destroys the Baxter Building while Frankie and Johnny are trapped in the other dimension and look like they will be killed by worse versions of the bugs. In the end, Johnny and Frankie get back to Earth and the bugs are all put back to where they belong – except for one who remains in an old lady's fridge.
7	"Hard Knocks"	Joshua Fine	Roland Boschi	September 23, 2006	107
Bruce Banner visits Reed at the Baxter Building. Banner changes into the Hulk and now the Fantastic Four must stop his rampage in NYC and keep him from being captured by Agent Pratt who wants to use the Hulk for his bosses' own agenda. In the end, Pratt fails to stop Hulk and the Hulk is loose in the badlands. The Fantastic Four have saved the day again as Pratt and his men are arrested by the U.S. army led by General "Thunderbolt" Ross.
8	"My Neighbor Was a Skrull"	Joseph Kelly
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Christophe Pittet	September 30, 2006 (U.S.)	108
Skrulls impersonate the Fantastic Four's neighbors in order to collect tissue samples from the Fantastic Four. In the end, Skrull commander Kl'rt tells Ronan the Accuser all samples have been collected for him to begin making the greatest warrior the universe has ever known.
9	"World's Tiniest Heroes"	Joshua Fine
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Olivier Poirette	October 21, 2006 (U.S.)	109
One of Reed's Microverse experiments causes the Fantastic Four to shrink putting them at risk when H.E.R.B.I.E. mistakes them for vermin and tries to exterminate them. The Fantastic Four are assisted by Ant-Man when it comes to getting to the lab and once there their lives are saved with Ant-Man’s help.
10	"De-Mole-Ition"	Bob Forward
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Laurent Delion	November 4, 2006 (U.S.)	110
The Mole Man uses Giganto attacks the Baxter Building in hopes of luring the Fantastic Four to his underground lair.
11	"Impossible"	Rob Loos and George Taweel
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Jeremie Bonachera	June 23, 2007 (U.S.)	111
The Impossible Man is brought to Earth by one of Reed's space probes and immediately starts causing trouble for everyone. In the end, the Fantastic Four convince Impossible Man that Earth isn't as fun as he is.
12	"Bait & Switch"	Bob Forward
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Luis Ruiz	June 30, 2007 (U.S.)	112
Doctor Doom hijacks one of Reed's experiments aimed at restoring Ben Grimm to human form and causes the Fantastic Four to swap powers with one another.
13	"Annihilation"	Christopher Yost
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Roland Boschi	July 14, 2007 (U.S.)	113
The Fantastic Four are brought to the Negative Zone where they come face to face with Annihilus. As if that wasn't bad enough, Doctor Doom arrives stealing Annihilus' power source and threatening Earth.
14	"Revenge of the Skrulls"	Bob Forward
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Luc Blanchard	August 11, 2007	114
The Fantastic Four hold a contest where the winner gets to spend the day with the Fantastic Four. The winner ended up being a fan named Rupert the Geek. Having acquired their tissue samples back in "My Neighbor Was A Skrull", the Skrulls now have the technology to duplicate the abilities of the Fantastic Four. Unknown to the Skrulls, Commander Kl'rt, the genius behind the breakthrough, is actually getting help from Ronan the Accuser in his next plot against the Fantastic Four.
15	"Strings"	Joshua Fine
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Christophe Pittet	August 25, 2007 (U.S.)	115
The Puppet Master gets the city to turn on the Fantastic Four by controlling its public officials like the Mayor of New York City and the Chief of Police. Evicted from their home much to the excitement of Courtney Bonner-Davis as well as their accounts frozen and their property seized, the Fantastic Four must clear their good names and stop the Puppet Master from taking over the minds of everyone on Earth.
16	"Imperius Rex"	Len Uhley
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Olivier Poirette	June 9, 2007 (U.S.)	116
Namor arrives with a decree banning humankind from the oceans. Susan and Johnny go underwater to negotiate, but are taken prisoner in Atlantis. Ben and Reed must fight their way through sea monsters, Atlantean soldiers, and Namor to save their teammates.
17	"Doomsday Plus One"	Bob Forward	Laurent Delion	April 27, 2007
September 1, 2007 (U.S.)	117
Doombots invade the Baxter Building in the middle of the night, but their attack is just a distraction for Doctor Doom to launch the Baxter Building into space.
18	"The Cure"	Christopher Yost, and Dan Slott (story)	Jeremie Bonachera	June 9, 2007
January 18, 2010 (U.S.)	118
Reed finally cures the Thing, but the cure also takes away all of his memories since the formation of the Fantastic Four. In order to find a replacement for Thing, the other members of the Fantastic Four hold auditions where She-Hulk wins over the other candidates Squirrel Girl, Captain Ultra, Texas Twister, Frog-Man, and Flatman. When the Mole Man attacks with an army of Lava Men, She-Hulk must fill in for the Thing while the powerless Ben Grimm must find a way to save the day.
19	"Frightful"	Len Uhley	Luis Ruiz	August 18, 2007
January 27, 2010 (U.S.)	119
The Frightful Four (consisting of The Wizard, Klaw, Trapster, and Dragon Man) is the new team in town saving New York always one step ahead of the Fantastic Four. Johnny even tries to prove that the Fantastic Four are still active in heroics by enlisting a photographer named Peter Parker. Reed begins to suspects that the Frightful Four are not the heroes they appear to be.
20	"Out of Time"	Joshua Fine	Luc Blanchard	September 15, 2007
January 28, 2010 (U.S.)	120
After returning from the past to find out what killed the Dinosaurs, the Fantastic Four return to New York to find that the whole city has been conquered by Doctor Doom.
21	"Atlantis Attacks!"	Bob Forward
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Olivier Poirette	September 1, 2007 (U.S.)	121
Namor returns. This time, he needs help to defeat Attuma who has overthrown Atlantis. While Reed, Susan, and Ben head off to help free Atlantis, Johnny stays behind and faces an attack on the city from a giant mutant whale.
22	"Shell Games"	Rob Hoegee	Roland Boschi	October 6, 2007
February 8, 2010 (U.S.)	122
After several attacks from Iron Man armors, the Fantastic Four track down Tony Stark. It turns out Doctor Doom was behind the attacks, and now the Four have to face both Iron Doom and Iron Man under Doom's control.
23	"Johnny Storm and the Potion of Fire"	Len Uhley
Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost (story)	Luc Blanchard	October 13, 2007
February 22, 2010 (U.S.)	123
During a confrontation with Diablo, Johnny is accidentally exposed to one of Diablo's potions he planned to use to gain control of all the elements.
24	"Contest of Champions"	Joshua Fine	Jeremie Bonachera	October 20, 2007
February 23, 2010 (U.S.)	124
At the request of Ronan the Accuser, the Grandmaster forces the Fantastic Four to compete in his game against Ronan, Impossible Man, Annihilus, and Super-Skrull. The fate of all humanity hangs in the balance as the species of the losers are wiped out.
25	"Doom's Word Is Law"	Paul Giacoppo, and Craig Kyle (story)	Luis Ruiz	February 24, 2010 (U.S.)	125
Doctor Doom creates a Doombot adaptoid to face the Fantastic Four. The Four try and retrain this Doombot to be on their side. In the end, Ben becomes the robot's friend and names him "Bruiser", but then Doctor Doom's control is too strong and it captures Susan and Reed. Johnny and Ben must save Susan and Reed, and fight Doom. But when Johnny is captured, Ben is left to fight Bruiser.
26	"Scavenger Hunt"	Christopher Yost and Craig Kyle	Olivier Poirette	February 25, 2010 (U.S.)	126
Terminus, an alien scavenger, comes to steal all of Earth's resources. While the Fantastic Four try everything to stop him, they realize he may be unbeatable.
Home releases
DVD Name	Region 1	Episodes	DVD Name	Region 4	Episodes
Volume One	March 27, 2007
"Doomed"
"Hard Knocks"
"World's Tiniest Heroes"
"De-Mole-Ition"
Volume One	October 10, 2007
"Trial by Fire"
"Doomed"
"Doomsday"
"Hard Knocks"
Volume Two	September 11, 2007
"Trial by Fire"
"My Neighbor Was a Skrull"
"Impossible"
"Revenge of the Skrulls"
Volume Two	October 10, 2007
"My Neighbor Was a Skrull"
"World's Tiniest Heroes"
"Zoned Out"
"Puppet Master"
Volume Three	March 11, 2008
"Annihilation"
"Doomsday Plus One"
"Out of Time"
"Shell Games"
Volume Three	February 6, 2008
"De-Mole-ition"
"Impossible"
"Bait and Switch"
"Revenge of the Skrulls"
The Complete First Season	June 10, 2008
All 26 episodes of the first season
Volume Four	June 4, 2008
"Doomsday Plus One"
"Annihilation"
"Strings"
"Imperious Rex"
Volume Five	September 3, 2008
"The Cure"
"Frightful"
"Atlantis Attack"
"Out of Time"
"Shell Games"
References
 "Marvel Animation Age". Archived from the original on July 16, 2009. Retrieved 2015-08-09.
External links
Official website at Marvel.com, with full episodes viewable online
Fantastic Four: World's Greatest Heroes at IMDb
Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm 4 PPSSPP
Marvel names Cartoon Network Exclusive U.S. Broadcast home for all-new Fantastic Four Animated Series
Cast announcement
Plots of the first episodes Archived 2007-02-11 at the Wayback Machine
September 2006 conference call with Executive Producer Craig Kyle and Head Fantastic Four writer/Story Editor Chris Yost.
vte
Nicktoons original programming
vte
Toonami (Cartoon Network / Kids' WB era)
vte
Cartoon Network co-productions
American
European
Canadian
Asia Pacific
Latin American
vte
Fantastic Four in other media
vte
Animated TV series based on Marvel Comics properties
Categories: Fantastic Four television series2006 American television series debuts2010 American television series endings2000s American animated television series2010s American animated television series2000s American science fiction television series2010s American science fiction television series2006 Canadian television series debuts2010 Canadian television series endings2000s Canadian animated television series2010s Canadian animated television series2000s Canadian science fiction television series2010s Canadian science fiction television series2006 French television series debuts2010 French television series endings2000s French animated television series2010s French animated television seriesFrench children's animated action television seriesFrench children's animated adventure television seriesFrench children's animated science fantasy television seriesFrench children's animated superhero television seriesCanadian children's animated action television seriesCanadian children's animated adventure television seriesCanadian children's animated science fantasy television seriesCanadian children's animated superhero television seriesAmerican children's animated action television seriesAmerican children's animated adventure television seriesAmerican children's animated science fantasy television seriesAmerican children's animated superhero television seriesEnglish-language television showsCartoon Network original programmingAnimated television series based on Marvel ComicsAnimated series produced by Marvel StudiosAnime-influenced Western animated television seriesTelevision shows based on Marvel ComicsTelevision series by Splash EntertainmentWorks by Christopher YostToonamiYTV (Canadian TV channel) original programming
This page was last edited on 22 August 2023, at 13:04 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
Toggle limited content width
