https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_The_Super_Hero_Squad_Show_episodes


Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
Series overview
Episodes
Toggle Episodes subsection
Season 1: 2009–10
Season 2: 2010–11
References
List of The Super Hero Squad Show episodes

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article has an unclear citation style. (August 2012)
This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. (March 2011)
This is a list of episodes for the TV show The Super Hero Squad Show.

In the opening sequence of the first season, the Hulk picks up an Infinity Fractal, and is transformed by its power into something different every episode. This feature was later removed for the second season. Additionally, each episode's title card is an homage to a classic comic book cover, as are some of the episode titles.

Series overview
Season	Episodes	First aired	Last aired
1	26	September 14, 2009	February 20, 2010
2	26	October 23, 2010	October 14, 2011
Episodes
Season 1: 2009–10
No. in
series	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Production
code
1	"And Lo... A Pilot Shall Come!"	Michael R. Gerard	Matt Wayne	September 14, 2009	101
The Super Hero Squad fights to keep a fractal away from Doctor Doom when he sends Mole Man and his monsters and Fin Fang Foom to attack Super Hero City. Meanwhile, Mole Man incorporates the fractal into his stick, resulting in superspeed and mind control powers.

Hulk's Transformation: Baby Hulk

First Appearance: Iron Man, Ms. Marvel, Mayor of Superhero City, Captain America, Wolverine, Hulk, Falcon, Redwing, Silver Surfer, Thor, Doctor Doom, Mole Man, Storm, Fin Fang Foom, Megataur, Tricephalous, Manoo, Fantastic Four (Mister Fantastic, Invisible Woman, Human Torch, Thing), Abomination, Colossus, Kitty Pryde, Luke Cage, Moloids

Referenced: Beast, Cyclops

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #1
2	"This Silver, This Surfer!"	Michael R. Gerard	Mark Hoffmeier	September 14, 2009	102
The squad gets frustrated when Silver Surfer cannot get the hang of Earth customs. Doctor Doom sends Abomination and MODOK to capture the Silver Surfer in order to siphon his cosmic power. The Super Hero Squad and the Thing set out to save him while Doom uses the siphoned Power Cosmic to meld his various fractals together into a Fractal Dagger.

Hulk's Transformation: Grey Hulk

Referenced: Galactus

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #50
3	"Hulk Talk Smack!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	September 26, 2009	103
During a chaotic battle with Klaw & Screaming Mimi, a fractal's cosmic power turns the Hulk into the Gray Hulk. His new form makes him a very intelligent guy who does not like to fight, and thinks that the Super Hero Squad is childish. To redeem themselves, Klaw and Screaming Mimi rendezvous with Melter and Toad to find a fractal at the local reservoir.

Hulk's Transformation: MODOH (Mental Organism designed only for Hulking)

First Appearance: Wasp, Klaw, Screaming Mimi, Toad, Melter, Damage Control

Referenced: Amadeus Cho

Film References: X-Men - Silver Surfer says, "So that's what happens to a toad when it is hit by lightning. What a letdown." This is said after Thor uses his hammer to knock Toad unconscious.

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Incredible Hulk #1
4	"To Err is Superhuman!"	Michael R. Gerard	James Krieg	October 3, 2009	104
Wolverine is assigned to train Reptil (a hero trainee with an amulet that can turn any part of his body into that of any dinosaur) at the time when Doctor Doom sends Abomination and the Wrecking Crew to get the latest fractal.

Hulk's Transformation: Joe Fixit

First Appearance: Reptil, Hawkeye, Wrecking Crew (Wrecker, Thunderball, Piledriver, Bulldozer), Doombots, MODOK

Referenced: Mister Sinister

Title Card's Issue Homage: Thor #148
5	"Enter: Dormammu!"	Patty Shinagawa	Charlotte Fullerton	October 10, 2009	105
Supernatural wackiness is turning Super Hero City upside down during the Super Hero Squad's fight with Sabretooth and Juggernaut. The Super Hero Squad seek the help of Doctor Strange (who is not acting like himself lately). Doctor Strange opens a portal to the Dark Dimension enabling Dormammu to enter and seek the fractals stored at the Vault and in Villainville.

Hulk's Transformation: Mecha-Hulk

First Appearance: Doctor Strange, Dormammu, Mindless Ones, Sabretooth, Wong, Juggernaut

Referenced: Enchantress

Real-life Reference: JC Whitney, David Copperfield (illusionist)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Strange Tales #122
6	"A Brat Walks Among Us!"	Michael R. Gerard	Michael Ryan	October 17, 2009	106
A bratty 3-year-old named Brynnie Bratton decides to hire the Heroes for Hire (consisting of Luke Cage, Iron Fist, and Misty Knight) to help her find her father, but is also wearing a tiara with a fractal making her invincible. The heroes and villains must put up with her superpower temper-tantrums while Falcon helps Heroes for Hire track down Brynnie's father and bring her under control.

Hulk's Transformation: Wolverine-Hulk

First Appearance: Iron Fist, Misty Knight, Pyro, Whirlwind, Zzzax, Brynnie Bratton

Title Card's Issue Homage: Power Man and Iron Fist #50
7	"Oh Brother!"	Michael R. Gerard	Nicole Dubuc	October 20, 2009	107
Loki convinces Doctor Doom to invade Asgard with Loki's army, and persuades him to let him borrow Abomination, MODOK, Klaw, Melter, and Sabretooth to help him. Sif gets Thor, along with the help of Falcon, Reptil, and Wolverine, to help fight the Lethal Legion. Meanwhile, Iron Man, Hulk, and Silver Surfer try to break into Villainville to steal all of Doctor Doom's fractals.

Hulk's Transformation: Bruce Banner

First Appearance: Loki, Heimdall, Sif, Warriors Three (Fandral, Hogun, Volstagg)

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #1
8	"From the Atom... It Rises!"	Patty Shinagawa	Mark Hoffmeier	October 21, 2009	108
When Scorpio tries to steal top-secret Stark Tech, the Super Hero Squad team tries to figure out Scorpio's plot. What neither they nor Doctor Doom, MODOK, Abomination, and even Mole Man know yet is that Scorpio is actually Nick Fury in disguise.

Hulk's Transformation: Vision

First Appearance: Nick Fury, Scorpio (Actually Nick Fury in a Disguise)

Referenced: HYDRA

Title Card's Issue homage: Nick Fury, Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. #1

Trivia: Iron Man's word-for-word memory of one of Nick Fury's adventures is an exact replica of the climax to The Spy Who Loved Me.
9	"Night in the Sanctorum!"	Michael R. Gerard	John Rozum	October 22, 2009	109
Enchantress uses her magic to crash the Helicarrier into the Great Wall near Villainville, and Ms. Marvel blames Falcon, as he was driving it at the time. After attempts to bunk in at Stark Industries, Punisher's van, and Reptil's house, the Super Hero Squad try to bunk at the Sanctum Sanctorum where Doctor Strange warns them that there is a magic threat responsible for their misfortunes.

Hulk's Transformation: Saturday Night Fever Hulk

First Appearances: Baron Mordo, Enchantress, Punisher, Texas Twister (as a picture), Lockheed (as a picture)

Referenced: Brother Voodoo, Inhumans, Molecule Man, She-Hulk, Shuma-Gorath, Ant-Man, Loki, Odin

Title Card's Issue Homage: Strange Tales #150

Animation Error: Reptil already had a place to stay (his house) yet he was amongst the other squaddies during their arrival at the Sanctorum. After the squaddies got kicked out, Reptil was not seen during the rest of this episode.
10	"This Forest Green!"	Patty Shinagawa	Atul Rao	October 23, 2009	110
When MODOK and Abomination botched up another fractal retrieval mission, Doctor Doom pairs them up with Egghead to infiltrate the Helicarrier in micro-size. When Ant-Man is called in to help, it is a micro-sized, all-out battle for the fractal.

Hulk's Transformation: Simpson Hulk.

First Appearances: Ant-Man, Egghead

Referenced: Mad Thinker, Quicksilver, Whizzer, Northstar, Joe Fixit

Title Card's Issue Homage: Tales to Astonish #35
11	"O, Captain, My Captain!"	Michael R. Gerard	Nicole Dubuc	October 24, 2009	111
When he is tired of all he can take with the Super Hero Squad, Wolverine joins up with the international All-Captains Squad (consisting of Captain America, Captain Australia, Captain Brazil, Captain Britain, and Captain Liechtenstein) as Captain Canada where he helps them fight Plantman in the Amazon. Meanwhile, the rest of the Super Hero Squad have an embarrassing encounter at Ringmaster's circus when Doctor Doom sends Abomination and MODOK to recruit Ringmaster.

Hulk's Transformation: Baby Hulk

First Appearances: Captain Australia, Captain Brazil, Captain Britain, Captain Liechtenstein, Plantman, Ringmaster

Referenced: Red Skull

Title Card's Issue Homage: Giant-Size X-Men #1
12	"If This Be My Thanos!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	October 31, 2009	112
With some of the members on vacation, Iron Man, Thor and Hulk help out the Fantastic Four when Super-Skrull and his fellow Skrulls invade Super Hero City. Meanwhile, Thanos and Doctor Doom form an alliance in order to obtain a specific artifact from the Baxter Building. While the Fantastic Four and the other Super Hero Squad members are fighting the Skrulls, Falcon and H.E.R.B.I.E. defend the Baxter Building from Abomination, MODOK, and Trapster.

Hulk's Transformation: Gray Hulk

First Appearances: H.E.R.B.I.E., The Skrulls, Super-Skrull, Paste Pot Pete, Thanos (actually a Skrull con man in disguise)

Referenced: Uatu the Watcher, Yancy Street Gang, A-Bomb

Real Life References: Don Heck

Internet Parodies: Facebook (Maskbook)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #18

Note: Even though the Silver Surfer appears in the beginning and is panting, he does not talk.
13	"Deadly Is The Black Widow's Bite!"	Michael R. Gerard	Story: Charlotte Fullerton
Teleplay: Eugene Son	November 7, 2009	113
Black Widow joins the Super Hero Squad and shows that she can hold her ground against Abomination, MODOK, and Screaming Mimi. Unbeknownst to them, she is really Mystique in disguise sent by Doctor Doom to steal the Infinity Fractals. When Mystique (alongside Abomination, Klaw, MODOK, and Toad) nearly gets the Infinity Fractals held at the Vault, the Super Hero Squad receive unlikely assistance from S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Songbird (who had been undercover as Screaming Mimi all along). Villains: Abomination, MODOK, Mystique, Doctor Doom, Klaw and Toad.

Hulk's Transformation: MODOH (Mental Organism designed only for Hulking)

First Appearances: Black Widow, Mystique, Songbird

Referenced: Dire Wraith, Impossible Man

Fictional References: Rocky & Bullwinkle

Title Card's Issue Homage: Tales of Suspense #53
14	"Tremble at the Might of... M.O.D.O.K.!"	Patty Shinagawa	Mark Hoffmeier	November 14, 2009	114
MODOK and Loki conspire to overthrow Doctor Doom and take his place as leader of his allied villain group after MODOK eats one of the fractals. In order to stop MODOK and Loki, the Super Hero Squad and Storm must team up with Black Panther and an unlikely ally... Doctor Doom.

Hulk's Transformation: Joe Fixit

First Appearances: Black Panther, Impossible Man, Leader, Tana Nile, Uatu the Watcher, Mad Thinker

Catchphrase references: Bugs Bunny

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #118
15	"Mental Organism Designed Only for Kisses!"	Michael R. Gerard	Matt Wayne	November 21, 2009	115
Enchantress uses a spell in order to make Thor fall in love with her. Instead, it backfires, causing Ms. Marvel to fall in love with MODOK. This causes S.H.I.E.L.D. to have Hawkeye take out Ms. Marvel before MODOK brings her to Doctor Doom's side. At the same time, Executioner plans to defeat Thor in order to get Enchantress to love him. Thor also falls in love with Valkyrie.

Hulk's Transformation: Hulk Bot

First Appearances: Executioner, Odin (mystical hologram), Valkyrie

Referenced: Frigga

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #7

Note: When Hulk turns on the TV when Hawkeye comes, you can hear SpongeBob laughing. Tom Kenny, the voice of Iron Man, also did the voice of SpongeBob.
16	"Invader From the Dark Dimension!"	Patty Shinagawa	Mark Hoffmeier	December 5, 2009	116
When Baron Mordo possesses Iron Man turning him into the Iron Menace and escapes from the Dark Dimension, he plans to take over Super Hero City and Villainville. When Wolverine, Falcon, and Redwing end up under Iron Menace's control, Hulk, Silver Surfer, and Thor must team up with Doctor Strange and Valkyrie to form a team of Defenders and stop Baron Mordo's evil plot. Doctor Doom and MODOK reluctantly help them when Iron Menace takes control of Abomination.

Hulk's Transformation: Wolverine-Hulk

Film References: The Wizard of Oz

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Defenders v1 #2
17	"Tales of Suspense!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	December 12, 2009	117
War Machine teams up with Iron Man when Doctor Doom, Crimson Dynamo, and Melter band together in a plot to eliminate Iron Man. Meanwhile, Wolverine and Reptil face off against Abomination and MODOK in a game of golf.

Hulk's Transformation: Bruce Banner

First Appearances: Crimson Dynamo, War Machine

Referenced: Devil Dinosaur & Moon-Boy, Forbush Man, Illuminati, Initiative, Magneto, Mandarin, Squirrel Girl, Titanium Man, She-Hulk

Film References: Rocky IV, Beaches, Caddyshack

Internet Parodies: Facebook (Maskbook)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Tales of Suspense #39

Trivia: When Iron Man was fighting War Machine, he mentions Reading Rainbow which LeVar Burton hosted. LeVar Burton voiced the War Machine in the episode.
18	"Stranger From a Savage Land!"	Michael R. Gerard	John Rozum	December 19, 2009	118
When a smilodon is brought to Super Hero City from the Savage Land, a mysterious jungle lord named Ka-Zar shows up stating that the smilodon is actually his companion Zabu. When the Super Hero Squad encounter Ka-Zar, they learn of his mission and help him rescue Zabu. Meanwhile, Doctor Doom sees the Star Quartz (which will bind and merge any metal in the presence of Vibranium) around Zabu's neck and sends Toad, Thunderball, Sabretooth, and Batroc the Leaper to steal Zabu in a plot to reforge the Infinity Sword.

Hulk's Transformation: Vision

First Appearance: Ka-Zar, Zabu, Batroc the Leaper

Title Card's Issue Homage: X-Men #10
19	"Mysterious Mayhem at Mutant High!"	Michael R. Gerard	James Krieg	December 26, 2009	119
Captain America sends Wolverine back to Xavier Academy to get his diploma and finish his remaining credits. Reptil tags along to see what Xavier Academy is like and meet the X-Men. To make matters worse, Ringmaster shows up and hypnotizes the entire X-Men team in order to find an Infinity Fractal for Doctor Doom.

Hulk's Transformation: Saturday Night Fever Hulk

First Appearance: X-Men (Cyclops, Iceman, Jean Grey (as Phoenix and Marvel Girl), Lockheed, Professor X Shadowcat)

Referenced: Shi'ar

Title Card's Issue Homage: X-Men v2 #1
20	"Election of Evil!"	Patty Shinagawa	Tad Stones	January 2, 2010	120
The Mayor of Super Hero City's re-election bid goes awry when Egghead wins by a landslide (thanks to a little mass mind-control). But his reign at city hall makes life in Super Hero City a bureaucratic nightmare for heroes and villains alike. Wolverine and the Mayor are up against every hero and villain in a desperate attempt to free everyone from Egghead's control and stop the villains' planned invasion.

Hulk's Transformation: Simpson Hulk.

Referenced: Spider-Man

Catchphrase references: Uncle Ben

Title Card's Issue Homage: Iron Man #128

Trivia: Egghead's Commercial is inspired by the Famous Shamwow! Commercial.
21	"Hexed, Vexed and Perplexed!"	Michael R. Gerard	Nicole Dubuc	January 9, 2010	121
Magneto is in town with his children Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch, who he brought into helping him in a sinister plot to steal the Infinity Fractals at the Vault for Doctor Doom. During the first fight, Falcon develops a crush on Scarlet Witch after she heals Redwing.

Hulk's Transformation: Simpsons Hulk

First Appearances: Magneto, Quicksilver, Scarlet Witch

Real Life References: Jack Kirby

Title Card's Issue Homage: X-Men #1
22	"The Ice Melt Cometh!"	Patty Shinagawa	Michael Ryan	January 23, 2010	122
Doctor Doom sends his "Team Toxic" (consisting of Pyro, Trapster, and Zzzax) out to the North Pole. His plan is to have them construct the super-spinner machine in order to spin the Earth enough to send Super Hero City into a space device built by Doctor Doom in his latest plot to get the Infinity Fractals, only for Team Toxic to run afoul of Iron Man, Thor, and Wolverine. While Flatman and Reptil lecture about the polar ice caps, the world starts flooding after Trapster sets off their super-spinner machine's self-destruct sequence causing damage to the polar ice caps. Now Iron Man must convince Iceman to help save the day.

Hulk's Transformation: Grey Hulk

First Appearances: Flatman

Title Card's Issue Homage: X-Men #18
23	"Wrath of the Red Skull!"	Michael R. Gerard	Mark Hoffmeier	January 30, 2010	123
It's Captain America's birthday and all he wants to do is celebrate it with his fellow Super Hero Squad members and Nick Fury. In order to show his minions what real villainy is like, Doctor Doom thaws out the WWII villain Red Skull. Captain America is not pleased to find his old enemy up to his old tricks, and Doctor Doom is not thrilled about Red Skull's enormous ego.

Hulk's Transformation: MODOH (Mental Organism Designed Only for Hulking)

First Appearances: Red Skull, Arnim Zola, Howling Commandos (Dum Dum Dugan, Gabe Jones, Izzy Cohen) Skullbots

Title Card's Issue Homage: Captain America #100
24	"Mother of Doom!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	February 6, 2010	124
Doctor Doom conquers Chthon's mystical dimension to free his mother Cynthia Von Doom (who changed her name to "Coco" because "Cynthia" is too drab). Though Doom ends up with Chthon's evil powers, he also finds himself dealing with his mother's monstrous nagging. Chthon comes to the Super Hero Squad and Doctor Strange for help. Meanwhile, Odin wants Thor to return to Asgard and orders him to handle his last-minute stuff on Earth before his time is up.

Hulk's Transformation: Joe Fixit

First Appearances: Chthon, Cynthia Von Doom, Galactus' Mom, Old Morgan le Fay

Referenced: Unus the Untouchable

Real Life References: Don Heck

Internet Parodies: Facebook (Maskbook)

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #187
25	"Last Exit Before Doomsday!"	Michael R. Gerard	Matt Wayne	February 13, 2010	125
Silver Surfer's past as Galactus' herald is revealed as he encounters another herald, Stardust. But Doctor Doom has plans of his own for Stardust and her big boss.

Hulk's Transformation: Mecha-Hulk

First Appearances: Galactus, Heralds of Galactus (Firelord, Stardust, Terrax)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #49
26	"This Al Dente Earth!"	Patty Shinagawa	Matt Wayne	February 20, 2010	126
Galactus arrives in Super Hero City to devour the Earth. The fate of the planet hangs in the balance, but all of the city's heroes are powerless before Galactus. Now the Super Hero Squad must convince Doctor Doom to help reforge the Infinity Sword to help defeat Galactus. They finally do make it, but Silver Surfer is the only one who can wield it with his Cosmic Power. Reptil gives up his Dinosaur powers (which were caused by a fossilized fractal), and the Silver Surfer becomes Galactus' herald again.

Hulk's Transformation: Wolverine-Hulk

First Appearances: Thanos (the real one), Phil Sheldon from "Marvels"

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #243
Season 2: 2010–11
No. in
series	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Production
code
27	"Another Order of Evil, Part 1!"[1]	Michael R. Gerard	Matt Wayne	October 23, 2010[2]	201
When Captain Marvel goes missing during a peace conference between the Kree and the Skrulls, Ms. Marvel forces the Super Hero Squad to come together again to get to the bottom of the disappearance, unaware that Thanos is behind it. Meanwhile, Doctor Doom plans a prison break with Wrecker and Thunderball.

First Appearances: Captain Marvel, Anelle, Kree, S.H.I.E.L.D. Bots

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #92
28	"Another Order of Evil, Part 2!"[3]	Patty Shinagawa	Matt Wayne	October 23, 2010[2]	202
After the Super Hero Squad gets imprisoned by the Skrulls, Falcon's trump card, in the form of Scarlet Witch, is the only hope to stop the war between the Kree and the Skrulls and to defeat Thanos and his Soul Gem.

First Appearances: Adam Warlock (as an Infinity Gem)

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #125
29	"Support Your Local Sky-Father!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	October 30, 2010	203
Jealous of the actions of Thor on Earth, Greek god Zeus challenges Odin to a battle between the god of Thunder and his son Hercules. Reptil sneaks along to help Thor out. Meanwhile, the Mayor of Super Hero City sends Invisible Woman to secretly broadcast the challenge for all of Super Hero City to see.

First Appearances: Hercules, Zeus, Power Pack (Alex Power, Julie Power, Jack Power, and Katie Power), Franklin Richards, Odin (full appearance)

Referenced: Krakoa

Film Reference: The Birds

Internet Parodies: YouTube (WhoTube)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Thor #126
30	"Villainy Redux Syndrome!"	Patty Shinagawa	Mark Hoffmeier	November 6, 2010	204
Slowly going insane in prison, Doctor Doom leads an escape plan where he distracts the Super Hero Squad using a Fin Fang Foom balloon, and must lead his former allies (and two new ones) to escape from the grasp of Captain America and Ms. Marvel.

First Appearances: Molecule Man, Volcana

Real Life References: Joe Quesada

Film References: The Great Escape

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #200
31	"World War Witch!"[2]	Michael R. Gerard	Nicole Dubuc	November 13, 2010[2]	205
A mishap between Thanos' new Time Gem and the Scarlet Witch's hex powers sends her back to World War II, where she must assist Captain America and the Invaders in stopping Red Skull from launching a rocket that will destroy Europe.

First Appearances: Invaders (Bucky, Human Torch, Toro), Ego the Living Planet

Referenced: Cosmic Egg

Title Card's Issue Homage: All Winners #19
32	"Whom Continuity Would Destroy!"	Michael R. Gerard	Story: Matt Wayne
Teleplay: Stan Berkowitz	November 20, 2010	206
Thanos recruits Iron Man, Hulk, and the Scarlet Witch for a match against the Squadron Supreme of another dimension in a battle of heroes for the Grandmaster's Mind Gem.

First Appearances: Squadron Supreme (Nighthawk, Hyperion, Power Princess), Grandmaster

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #70
33	"Double Negation at the World's End!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	November 27, 2010	207
After stealing the Space Gem from Thanos, Nebula seizes the teleporter of the Helicarrier to get away, but sucks herself, as well as H.E.R.B.I.E. and Wolverine, into the Negative Zone, where Annihilus attacks them, thinking they are after his Cosmic Control Rod.

First Appearances: Annihilus, Nebula, Firestar (as a picture)

Referenced: Death, X-23

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #109

Trivia: The Iron Man from The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes made a cameo appearance when Iron Man and Falcon travel to the Negative Zone.
34	"Alienating with the Surfer!"	Michael R. Gerard	Mark Hoffmeier	January 8, 2011	208
With Galactus attempting to eat the Skrull Throneworld and the Silver Surfer nowhere to be found, the Squad must hold off the devourer while finding their ally. Silver Surfer (who is slowly being corrupted by the Infinity Sword) turns out to have delayed Ronan the Accuser from coming to the Skrull Throneworld's aid.

First Appearances: Ronan the Accuser, Dro'ge

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #74
35	"Blind Rage Knows No Color!"	Michael R. Gerard	Jim Kreig	January 15, 2011	209
Thanos uses the Mind Gem to control Hulk who goes on a sleepwalking rampage. The Super Hero Squad must enter the dream realm to fight back, even if they have to get help from Nightmare.

First Appearances: Nightmare, Alicia Masters

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #25
36	"Lo, How the Mighty Hath Abdicated!"	Patty Shinagawa	Charlotte Fullerton	January 22, 2011	210
Enchantress places a love spell on Odin in an attempt to become queen of Asgard, but a forgotten rule forces him from the throne and makes his son Thor king instead, which both she and Loki try to take advantage of. Meanwhile, Magneto and Quicksilver discover Wanda joining with the Super Hero Squad and hitch a ride to try and take her back from them.

First Appearances: Balder, Frigga

Title Card's Issue Homage: Journey Into Mystery #103
37	"So Pretty When They Explode!"	Michael R. Gerard	Len Wein	January 29, 2011	211
Thanos destroys the Nova Corp and takes Nova captive in order to get his hands on the Power Gem, leading Iron Man to recruit Hercules and She-Hulk to rescue him. Meanwhile, H.E.R.B.I.E. falls for Nova's messenger droid named Holoball.

First Appearances: Nova, She-Hulk, Ultron, Holoball, Thanos-Bots

Film Reference: Star Wars

Title Card's Issue Homage: Nova #1
38	"Too Many Wolverines!"	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	February 5, 2011	212
An army of Wolverine clones invade Super Hero City, forcing the real Wolverine and Reptil to get to the source, with help from Firestar. Outside of the other Super Hero Squad members rounding up the Wolverine clones, Reptil is unaware that his science fair partner and Firestar are the same person. It soon turns out that Egghead is responsible for the Wolverine clones.

First Appearances: Firestar (also as Angelica Jones), Amadeus Cho, X-23

Title Card's Issue Homage: Wolverine #1

Note: This episode has many direct references to the 1980s Marvel cartoon Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends, including an opening narration by Stan Lee (in his Mayor character), an Australian Wolverine clone, and the use of Firestar.
39	"Pedicure and Facial of Doom!"	Patty Shinagawa	Richard Pursel	February 12, 2011	213
Doctor Doom returns to Latveria in hopes to regroup, but discovers that his mother Cynthia "Coco" Von Doom is free from captivity, has brainwashed her captor Chthon, and has turned his castle into a day-spa trap that has ensnared the Super Hero Squad!

First Appearances: Hotel Employee Doombots

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #84
40	"Fate of Destiny!"	Michael R. Gerard	Story: Matt Wayne
Teleplay: Stan Berkowitz	February 19, 2011	214
Thanos completes his Infinity Stone collection and the Super Hero Squad faces him in a final showdown for the fate of the universe. However, when requesting backup from one of their own, they encounter a betrayal that changes everything.

Note: In this episode, it is revealed that Adam Warlock was the imprisoned person in the Soul gem.

First Appearances: Adam Warlock (full appearance), Dark Surfer

Title Card's Issue Homage: Silver Surfer v2 #34

Note:Subsequent episodes have only been available on iTunes or, in Canada, Teletoon. In Australia, this is the last episode of Series 2. Series 2 is Australia's Season 2.
41	"The Ballad of Beta Ray Bill!
(Six Against Infinity, Part 1)"[4]	Patty Shinagawa	Nicole Dubuc	July 23, 2011[5]	215
After being thrown into a portal by Dark Surfer, Thor befriends a Korbonite janitor named Beta Ray Bill after being transported to his space station, and must give up Mjölnir in order to prove that he has excellent fighting skills.

First Appearances: Beta Ray Bill, Stranger

Title Card's Issue Homage: Thor #337
42	"Days, Nights, and Weekends of Future Past!
(Six Against Infinity, Part 2)"[4]	Michael R. Gerard	Eugene Son	July 23, 2011[5]	216
After being thrown into a portal by Dark Surfer, Falcon and H.E.R.B.I.E. find themselves in an alternate reality where Scarlet Witch is an evil empress who rules the world. With help from an elderly Magneto and a strong Reptil, Falcon and H.E.R.B.I.E. try to convince Scarlet Witch that she is good and let the world be in peace.

First Appearances: Sentinels

Title Card's Issue Homage: X-Men #141

Referenced: Squirrel Girl
43	"This Man-Thing, This Monster!
(Six Against Infinity, Part 3)"[4]	Patty Shinagawa	John Rozum	October 3, 2011[6]	217
After being thrown into a portal by Dark Surfer, a powerless Iron Man finds himself stranded on a world of monsters. There, he meets Man-Thing and Werewolf by Night and battles Dracula and a gang of mummies led by N'Kantu, the Living Mummy.

First Appearances: Man-Thing, Werewolf by Night/Jack Russell, Dracula, N'Kantu, the Living Mummy, Doc Samson, Ellen (Werewolf by Night's girlfriend)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Tomb of Dracula #1
44	"The Devil Dinosaur You Say!
(Six Against Infinity, Part 4)"[4]	Michael R. Gerard	Eugene Son	October 4, 2011[6]	218
After being thrown into a portal by Dark Surfer, Wolverine winds up on Dinosaur World (a world populated mainly by dinosaurs) and encounters the High Evolutionary who asks him to help with a particular dinosaur named Devil Dinosaur in exchange for helping to get Wolverine back to Earth. Meanwhile, the Mayor of Super Hero City's attempt to negotiate with the Dark Surfer makes things worse for Earth in the SHS' absence.

First Appearances: Moon-Boy, Devil Dinosaur, High Evolutionary

Catchphrase references: Daffy Duck

Title Card's Issue Homage: Devil Dinosaur #1
45	"Planet Hulk!
(Six Against Infinity, Part 5)"[4]	Patty Shinagawa	Jimmy Palmiotti	October 5, 2011[6]	219
After being thrown into a portal by Dark Surfer, Hulk ends up on Sakaar and he is captured by the Red King for gladiator-themed tournament games. In order to be free of the Red King's cruelty, Hulk teams up with two other gladiators named Miek and Korg.

Note: Based on the Planet Hulk storyline.

First Appearances: Red King, Miek, Korg

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Incredible Hulk #3
46	"1602!
(Six Against Infinity, Part 6)"[4]	Michael R. Gerard	Eugene Son	October 6, 2011[6]	220
After being thrown into a portal by Dark Surfer, Scarlet Witch ends up in the Marvel 1602 universe where she finds a town under attack by pirate versions of Doctor Doom, MODOK, and Abomination. Unfortunately for Scarlet Witch, the townspeople do not appreciate witches.

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Avengers #104
47	"Brouhaha at the World's Bottom!"[7]	Patty Shinagawa	Stan Berkowitz	October 7, 2011[6]	221
As Mister Fantastic and Ms. Marvel make a desperate attempt to rescue the Squaddies from their extra-dimensional exile, Baron Strucker and his HYDRA soldiers besieges their distant Antarctic outpost. To buy Mister Fantastic and Ms. Marvel some time, Captain America teams up with Ka-Zar and Zabu to fight off the forces of HYDRA.

First Appearances: HYDRA, Baron Strucker

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Amazing Spider-Man #103
48	"Missing: Impossible!"[7]	Michael R. Gerard	Tom Kenny & Eugene Son	October 10, 2011[6]	222
When the Impossible Man's wife kicks him out, the irrepressible funster ends up crashing with the Super Hero Squad. But to save his marriage, Impossible Man attempts to do something no one else has been able to do – defeat the Dark Surfer.

First Appearances: Impossible Man, Impossible Woman (Impossible Man's wife)

Title Card's Issue Homage: Fantastic Four #11
49	"Revenge of the Baby Sat!"[7]	Patty Shinagawa	Eugene Son	October 11, 2011[6]	223
The Super Hero Squad suffers a time mishap that transforms several of the Squaddies into toddlers! It's up to the unaffected heroes to find a way to fix the Super Hero Toddlers before they are stuck that way forever.

First Appearances: Space Phantom

NOTE: The title is a reference to a Calvin and Hobbes book entitled Revenge of the Baby Sat.

Title Card's Issue Homage: X-Men Annual #10 (itself based on Giant-Size X-Men #1)
50	"Soul Stone Picnic!"[7]	Michael R. Gerard	Charlotte Fullerton	October 12, 2011[6]	224
Ms. Marvel leads the Squaddies on a mission to rescue her namesake Captain Marvel from the Dark Surfer. But when the fight traps the Squaddies in the Soul Stone, it's Captain Marvel who performs the ultimate sacrifice.

Title Card's Issue Homage: Ms. Marvel #1
51	"When Strikes the Surfer!"[4]	Patty Shinagawa	Stan Berkowitz	October 13, 2011[6]	225
As the Dark Surfer prepares to end the universe, Ms. Marvel reveals a secret that could finally bring down the Infinity Gauntlet. Meanwhile, Doctor Doom prepares one final measure to try and stop the Dark Surfer with his own villainous team.

Referenced: Elders of the Universe, Guardians of the Galaxy

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Infinity Gauntlet #6
52	"The Final Battle! ('Nuff Said!)"[4]	Michael R. Gerard	Nicole Dubuc	October 14, 2011[6]	226
The Six Squaddies must each face the Dark Surfer one-on-one, in a final battle for the fate of reality that takes them to the edge of the universe— and a last stand at the cosmic Infinity Pool that brings everything full circle.

Title Card's Issue Homage: The Infinity Gauntlet #1
References
 "New The Super Hero Squad Show Home Video Release", Other Updates.
 "The Superhero Squad Show | Free Online Video | Cartoon Network". Archived from the original on 2011-01-31. Retrieved 2010-10-16.
 "Upgrade system login | XenForo".
 "Marvel Animation Age". Archived from the original on 2011-07-24. Retrieved 2011-02-17.
 James Harvey. ""The Super Hero Squad Show" Cartoon Network, Teletoon July 2011 Schedule". Toon Zone. Retrieved July 6, 2011.
 http://marvel.toonzone.net/news.php?action=fullnews&id=707[dead link]
 http://marvel.toonzone.net/news.php?action=fullnews&id=665[dead link]
vte
Animated TV series based on Marvel Comics properties
Categories: Lists of Marvel Comics animated series episodesLists of American children's animated television series episodesLists of Cartoon Network television series episodes
This page was last edited on 13 August 2023, at 20:08 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
Toggle limited content width
