https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Marvel_Anime_episodes#X-Men

X-Men
No.	Title	Original airdate	English airdate
01	"The Return - Joining Forces"
Transcription: "The Return - Shūketsu" (Japanese: The Return - 集結)	1 April 2011[10]	21 October 2011
Since the tragic self-demise of Jean Grey one year ago (who had been fully possessed by the almighty Dark Phoenix entity), the X-Men have disbanded and the Xavier Institute has closed. Professor X requests Storm, Wolverine and Beast, who are eventually re-joined by Cyclops, to fly to the Tōhoku region of Japan to investigate the sudden disappearance of Hisako Ichiki.
02	"U-Men - Mutant Hunting"
Transcription: "U-Men - Myūtanto Gari" (Japanese: U-Men - ミュータント探り)	8 April 2011[10]	28 October 2011
The X-Men learn that in Tōhoku, the U-Men have been kidnapping mutants in order to harvest their organs to create countermeasures against mutant-kind. They find themselves attacked by the U-Men's robots, but are able to destroy them. At an abandoned hospital, they find a mutant boy, who transforms into a monster and Cyclops reluctantly kills him to save his friends. They manage to locate the laboratory where Hisako is being kept along with Emma Frost, a woman who Cyclops remembers was psioncally present with Jean during his battle with the Dark Phoenix.
03	"Armor - Awakening"
Transcription: "Armor - Kakusei" (Japanese: Armor - 覚醒)	15 April 2011[10]	4 November 2011
Emma has denied any involvement in the battle with the Dark Phoenix, but she briefs them about her resignation from the Inner Circle and her part in helping Hisako further develop her ability. The X-Men battle a group of cyborgs all the while being analyzed for data. In the Organ Storage, the X-Men confront Kick. Hisako's mutant powers awaken and she erects a powerful psionic armor around herself, defeating Kick, while Emma Frost mentally helps with her self-control. After liberating the other mutant children, Emma defends Hisako from Kick.
04	"Transformation - Secondary Mutation"
Transcription: "Transformation - Niji Henshitsu" (Japanese: Transformation - 二次変質)	22 April 2011[10]	11 November 2011
Emma's secondary mutation of turning solid diamond activates to block Kick's attacks, then the X-Men kill him and Hisako is reunited with her family, but later travels with Emma and the X-Men. En route to New York, they are attacked by a mutant from U-Men's lab who suffers the same condition as Emma. Once at Beast's lab, the boy shortly dies, revealed to have been caused by the 'Damon-Hall Syndrome'. Emma however is in no danger at all. Xavier suspects something is still going on in Tōhoku which is causing these mutations.
05	"Power - Unity"
Transcription: "Power - Kessoku" (Japanese: Power - 結束)	6 May 2011[10]	18 November 2011
Cyclops disapproves of Emma being made an official X-Man. After a fierce simulated battle between Cyclops and Hisako, Emma sees Hisako's lack of self-confidence. Emma clears the matter by allowing Xavier to scan her mind and reveal her past to the team, including her affiliation and resignation of the Inner Circle, thus Cyclops ceases his distrust for Emma and welcomes her as a friend. As the X-Men prepare to leave for Tōhoku with the DHS vaccines, Emma questions Xavier about a woman named Yui Sasaki which she saw when their minds were linked.
06	"Conflict - Contested"
Transcription: "Conflict - Gekisen" (Japanese: Conflict-激戦)	13 May 2011[10]	25 November 2011
Once the X-Men arrive back in Tōhoku, Beast administers the vaccine to several infected mutants, while the others investigate strange occurrences in the area. On a flight to the dead zone, the Blackbird is shot down and buried by living snow. The X-Men are crippled by Sublime in robotic armor, until Beast finds a weak point, allowing the others to defeat him. After the X-Men discover a Mutant Detector, Sublime self-destructs. Caught in the middle of a blizzard, the X-Men are forced to take shelter in a lodge resided by Yui Sasaki, former headmistress of her own academy when Hisako was younger.
07	"Betrayal - Shock"
Transcription: "Betrayal - Shōgeki" (Japanese: Betrayal-衝撃)	20 May 2011[10]	2 December 2011
As the X-Men talk to Yui, Emma suspects she may be lying about her relation to Xavier. The X-Men also meet Yui's research assistants Riko Nirasaki, Kōichi Kaga, and Jun Sanada. Yui later contacts Xavier, revealing he has a young son named Takeo that had died. As Wolverine, Storm and Beast investigate the phenomenon which ensnared their Blackbird, they are confronted by Inner Circle agents Rat and Marsh. After a brief battle, they escape upon setting off an avalanche. As Hisako goes to find Yui concerning some irritation on her right hand, Emma asks to dive into Cyclops' mind in order to quell his enduring sorrow and find closure for losing Jean. Meanwhile, Yui is attacked.
08	"Lost - Signs"
Transcription: "Lost - Yochō" (Japanese: Lost-予兆)	27 May 2011[10]	9 December 2011
The X-Men rush to Yui's aid, as she is attacked by a spider-like monster. Upon defeating the monster, they are shocked to discover that it turns back to Riko Nirasaki who was afflicted by DHS. Beast vaccinates Riko while questioning Yui. Kaga transforms into a monster due to DHS and attacks the X-Men, but is defeated. Emma catches a glace of Jun Sanada and sees his image flicker to that of Mastermind and he vanishes. After Kaga is vaccinated, Cyclops and Wolverine confront her about their discovery of a secret medication she had supplied Riko and Kaga. Xavier flies the backup Blackbird to Tōhoku, reflecting on his and Yui's past romance, but suddenly finds himself and the ship trapped in a void over Tōhoku.
09	"Revelations - From Behind the Scenes"
Transcription: "Revelations - An'yakusha" (Japanese: Revelations-暗躍者)	3 June 2011[11]	16 December 2011
Yui reveals that the medication is experimental and designed to suppress mutant powers from awakening, but has instead become a viral mutagen. Emma follows Jun deep in the laboratory and confronts him as his true persona: Mastermind, leader of the Inner Circle, who used the U-Men as part of the plan and framed Emma for "causing" Jean's demise. The two fight, then Marsh intervenes, but the X-Men arrive and save Emma. Using an illusion of Jean, Mastermind affects Wolverine into attacking his own team, but Cyclops snaps him out of it. Emma manages to expose Mastermind. While the X-Men confront the Inner Circle members, Xavier battles an immensely strong psionic opponent in the void.
10	"Countdown - Truth"
Transcription: "Countdown - Shinjitsu" (Japanese: Countdown-真実)	10 June 2011[11]	23 December 2011
The X-Men battle the Inner Circle, defeating Rat. They discover a machine for tracking mutants, similar to Cerebro and an addition a room where Yui is containing her and Xavier's son Takeo who is an unusually strong telepath/empath with an uncontrollable power to warp reality, which Mastermind intends to use to conquer humanity. Yui hired the U-Men to obtain extracted mutant tissue in order to do her research in the hopes of improving Takeo's condition. The Inner Circle's White Bishop Neuron kills Riko and Kōichi. Mastermind awakens Takeo while Marsh and Neuron entrap the X-Men. Meanwhile, Xavier manages to escape the void.
11	"Revenge - End"
Transcription: "Revenge - Shūmatsu" (Japanese: Revenge-終末)	17 June 2011[11]	30 December 2011
Hisako recalls that Takeo was once her childhood friend, who caused a tragic accident. As Mastermind manipulates Takeo, Hisako breaks free and overpowers Marsh helping Cyclops kill him, while Beast overpowers Neuron and Wolverine kills him. Mastermind puts Cyclops in an nightmarish illusionary battle against the Dark Phoenix. A vision of Jean Grey comes to Cyclops' aid and Cyclops is able to break free from Mastermind's trance. Takeo turns against Mastermind and kills him, then begins to become unstable enough to destroy the Earth. Xavier arrives to confront Takeo.
12	"Destiny - Bond"
Transcription: "Destiny - Kizuna" (Japanese: Destiny-絆)	24 June 2011[11]	6 January 2012
Xavier contacts the world's population to support each other (mutants and heroes included). Takeo is impervious to the X-Men's attacks. Xavier has a difficult time getting through to Takeo who hates Xavier for his miserable existence and they mentally battle one another. Reflecting on being Takeo's one and only good friend, Hisako manages to get through to Takeo and coax him, stabilizing him and allowing him to peacefully die and a new age of peace around the world begins. In a post-credit scene, it is revealed that Magneto's plastic prison has been destroyed and he has escaped.
