https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Marvel_Anime_episodes#Wolverine

Wolverine
No.	Title	Original airdate	English airdate
01	"Mariko"
Transcription: "Mariko" (Japanese: 真理子～MARIKO)	7 January 2011	23 July 2011[5][6]
Logan saves Tesshin Asano from a group of A.I.M. troops. Asano tells Logan about the whereabouts of his non-mutant girlfriend and sweetheart Mariko Yashida, who was taken by her own father's, Shingen, crime organisation Kuzuryu one year ago in order to arrange a marriage with Hideki Kurohagi to expand his operations. Logan flies to Tokyo and infiltrates the Yashida household, only to be confronted by Shingen. Logan faces Shingen in a duel, but is drugged by Hideki.
02	"Yukio"
Transcription: "Yukio" (Japanese: 雪緒～YUKIO)	14 January 2011[7]	5 August 2011
Logan is defeated and dumped on a railroad track. Asano follows to save Logan, but finds Hideki's men killed and Logan gone. An assassin named Yukio has revived Logan and teams up with him. They find that Asano was murdered, but are assumed the killers by the police. After fighting their way out, Logan and Yukio are faced by the strongest and most lethal assassins: Kikyo Mikage.
03	"Kikyo"
Transcription: "Kikyō" (Japanese: 桔梗～KIKYO)	21 January 2011[7]	12 August 2011
Logan and Kikyo are engaged in a fierce fight. Logan concludes Kikyo was Asano's killer, while police squads surround the area, but Logan and Yukio make their escape. Hoping to disrupt Shingen's operations, Logan and Yukio stop a shipment Hideki is collecting. However, the cargo is revealed to be Logan's nemesis Omega Red.
04	"Omega Red"
Transcription: "Omega Reddo" (Japanese: 極赤～OMEGA RED)	28 January 2011[7]	19 August 2011
Logan's fight with Omega Red takes its toll on him regardless of his healing factor, reminiscing him mission from S.H.I.E.L.D. to steal Carbonadium and his previous encounter against Omega Red throughout. Hideki and his men get away while Agent Tsukino seizes the evidence that can help expose Shingen. Logan thwarts an assassination attempt, but Omega Red returns and has Logan pinned down.
05	"Asano"
Transcription: "Asano" (Japanese: 浅野～ASANO)	4 February 2011[7]	26 August 2011
Logan helped by Yukio cripples Omega Red, who is later retrieved by A.I.M. for treatment. Logan goes to the Yashida household, but is challenged by Kikyo to another fight. Their fight is interrupted by Omega Red, whom Logan quickly defeats. It is revealed that Shingen has taken Markio to Madripoor where the agents have no jurisdiction. After the fight, the X-Men's Blackbird de-cloaks with Cyclops piloting it.
06	"Min" (Girl)
Transcription: "Min" (Japanese: 少女～MIN)	11 February 2011[8]	2 September 2011
Cyclops drops Logan and Yukio off at Madripoor. Separated from Yukio by pirates, Logan treks across the island while he is repeatedly attacked by criminal gangs and outlaws. An girl named Min kills several men with Kunais to help him. Then after Logan questions her, they ultimately team up. Hideki sends out the giant statue Vadhaka to kill Logan.
07	"Vadhaka" (Statue)
Transcription: "Vadaka" (Japanese: 像～VADHAKA)	18 February 2011[8]	9 September 2011
Logan and Min are on the run from the Vadhaka statue. Yukio comes to their rescue, then Min blinds Vadhaka. Down in the sewers, Min's allies led by Master Koh offer assistance to Logan, allowing Master Koh and his people to liberate Madripoor. After Koh briefs Logan on his origins and past, a transmission informs them that Yukio has been captured by Hideki's men and she will be killed if Logan does not surrender.
08	"Koh"
Transcription: "Kō" (Japanese: 黄～KOH)	25 February 2011[8]	16 September 2011
Logan intends to rescue Yukio and Koh provides him the information he'll need for his mission on the Dragon Palace later. Yukio own's attempt to escape fails, but Logan gets past the automated defenses and releases her. Together, they take the dangerous path called "Hell Road" to get to Hideki.
09	"Hell Road"
Transcription: "Heru Rōdo" (Japanese: 獄道～HELL ROAD)	4 March 2011[8]	23 September 2011
At first, Hell Road is quiet, but Logan and Yukio drive through spear-trapped sections. Soon, they're forced to continue their course on foot, getting briefly stopped by a pit trap and a gang of swordsmen. While Logan and Yukio get past more dangerous traps and rivalry gang wars break out, Hideki decides to start his wedding with Mariko earlier and Master Koh's army advances through Hell Road. At the Dragon Palace entrance, Logan is faced with Kikyo once again.
10	"Shingen"
Transcription: "Shingen" (Japanese: 信玄～SHINGEN)	11 March 2011[9]	30 September 2011
Kikyo allows Logan to delay their duel due to his code of honour. Hideki sends an upgraded Vadhaka against Logan. Despite a severe crushing against Vadhaka's foot, Logan manages to overthrow Vadhaka and himself against the walls. As Hideki's men fire on Koh's army, Kikyo upholds his honour and disarms them, then he helps Logan to destroy Vadhaka after Min is killed in the crossfire.
11	"Kurohagi"
Transcription: "Kurohagi" (Japanese: 黒萩～KUROHAGI)	18 March 2011[9]	7 October 2011
Logan, Yukio and Kikyo break into Dragon Palace, with Koh's forces aiding. Koh however goes to face Shingen by himself, but Yukio intervenes, though Koh sacrifices his life for Yukio. With Koh's forces overrunning the place and Logan about to crash the wedding, Hideki holds Mariko at gunpoint. As Hideki takes an unconscious Mariko away, Logan prepares to battle Shingen once again.
12	"Logan"
Transcription: "Rōgan" (Japanese: 狼眼～LOGAN)	25 March 2011[9]	14 October 2011
Logan sustains nasty wounds as he fights Shingen. Kikyo prevents Hideki from using a powerful poison dart gun on Logan, then helps a wounded Yukio. Hideki takes Mariko to the catacombs and reveals it was he himself that killed his father to take over, then sets the building to self-destruct. After much fighting, Logan and Yukio finally slaughter Shingen, Yukio confessing to killing Asumo before she dies. Logan pursues Hideki, then he endures a poison dart but manages to use it against Hideki. However Mariko has been hit by a stray bullet, but they share a final, romantic kiss before she dies. In the post-credits, Logan and Kikyo start the battle that they had postponed
