https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Avengers_Assemble_episodes


Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
Series overview
Episodes
Toggle Episodes subsection
Season 1 (2013–14)
Season 2 (2014–15)
Season 3: Ultron Revolution (2016–17)
Season 4: Secret Wars (2017–18)
Season 5: Black Panther's Quest (2018–19)
Shorts (2017)
References
List of Avengers Assemble episodes

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Avengers Assemble is an animated television series based on the comic book super hero team known as the Avengers. It premiered on Disney XD on May 26, 2013.

As of February 24, 2019, 127 episodes of Avengers Assemble have aired.

On June 1, 2015, the series was renewed for a third season titled Avengers: Ultron Revolution, which premiered on Disney XD on March 13, 2016.[1] It was renewed for a fourth season which is entitled Avengers: Secret Wars, and then a fifth and final season entitled Avengers: Black Panther's Quest.[2]

Series overview
Season	Title	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1
N/A	26	May 26, 2013	May 25, 2014
2
N/A	26	September 28, 2014	September 20, 2015
3
Ultron Revolution	26	March 13, 2016	January 28, 2017
Shorts
6	June 2, 2017	June 7, 2017
4
Secret Wars	26	June 17, 2017	March 11, 2018
5
Black Panther's Quest	23	September 23, 2018	February 24, 2019
Episodes
Season 1 (2013–14)
The first season focuses on the Avengers reuniting after some time to defeat Red Skull and his newly formed team The Cabal, which consists of the Avengers' most powerful enemies, along with the help of new teenage S.H.I.E.L.D. recruit Sam Wilson (alias Falcon).

No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date [3]	US viewers
(millions)
1	1	"The Avengers Protocol"	Eric Radomski	Man of Action	May 26, 2013	N/A
2	2
Part 1: After having been disbanded, the Avengers members Iron Man, Hulk, Thor, Hawkeye, and spy Black Widow reunite when the Red Skull (who is dying from the imperfections of his Super Soldier Serum) and MODOK kidnap Captain America during HYDRA's attack on Liberty Island. With the aid of the new recruit Falcon, the heroes must come together once again to rescue Captain America before Red Skull can transfer his mind into Captain America's body. The Avengers succeed, but watch in horror as Red Skull and MODOK steal Tony Stark's armor with no mercy.

Part 2: The Avengers retreat back to Avengers Mansion to save Iron Man's life after his armor was stolen by Red Skull to keep him alive at the last minute of a successful battle. MODOK uses his technology to mind-control the Avengers causing them to attack each other. Meanwhile, Red Skull infiltrates the Avengers Mansion to carry out a devious plot that puts the entire city of Manhattan at risk. After Red Skull's failed mission destroys Avengers Mansion which causes the Avengers to relocate to Stark Tower, he sends out holographic invitations to multiple villains to join his Cabal.
3	3	"Ghost of a Chance"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Paul Giacoppo	July 7, 2013	N/A
After the Avengers fall victim to the body-swapping Space Phantoms, Falcon stands alone to save his team and stop a full-scaled invasion of Planet Earth.
4	4	"The Serpent of Doom"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action	July 14, 2013	N/A
Thor believes he must sacrifice himself to save the world from Doctor Doom when he summons the Midgard Serpent using a powerful Asgardian weapon stolen from Ulik.
5	5	"Blood Feud"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action, Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	July 21, 2013	N/A
The Avengers face off against Dracula and his vampire army after Dracula partially converts Black Widow into a vampire. It's a race against time to stop Black Widow from becoming a full vampiress.
6	6	"Super Adaptoid"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Ed Valentine	July 28, 2013	N/A
The Avengers are out-gunned by the high-tech, power-mimicking Super Adaptoid when it is created by Justin Hammer as a way to impress Red Skull enough to admit him into the Cabal. Captain America is the last man standing against the ultimate artificial intelligence.
7	7	"Hyperion"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	August 4, 2013	N/A
An all-powerful super-being named Hyperion arrives to save Earth after helping the Avengers stop some meteors. But when his methods to keep peace on Earth becomes too extreme after he nearly kills Wrecker, the Avengers must stand up to him to saving humanity from total domination.
8	8	"Molecule Kid"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Danielle Wolff	August 11, 2013	N/A
Hawkeye and Black Widow take on a covert S.H.I.E.L.D. mission to bringing in Molecule Man's son Aaron, but Nick Fury wants the mission to be kept private from Iron Man. When he's revealed to have a world-bending weapon that was wielded by Molecule Man, they realized keeping their mission a secret may be a fatal mistake when A.I.M. Agents, MODOK, and Super-Adaptoid target Molecule Man's son so that the Red Skull can shape the world into his own vision.
9	9	"Depth Charge"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Jay Faerber	September 15, 2013	0.66[4]
During a fight with a giant monster, Hulk discerns that something has caused it to run scared into Manhattan. An approaching tidal wave heralds that Attuma is trying to sink Manhattan with his army of Atlanteans. Hulk is forced to prove his strength or perish trying to prevent Manhattan from sinking.
10	10	"The Doomstroyer"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Paul Giacoppo	September 22, 2013	0.70[5]
While in Asgard's Realm Below, Doctor Doom takes command of the Destroyer armor. Thor has to convince the team to trust the one person who may be able to stop him, who turns out to be Loki.
11	11	"Hulked Out Heroes"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	September 29, 2013	0.74[6]
The Avengers team learns what it's like to walk a mile in Hulk's shoes when an unstable gamma energy virus released by Red Skull and the Blood Brothers turns them into raging monsters. The unlikely duo of Hulk and Black Widow is the last line of defense between the city and the Hulk-Vengers before the virus causes them to detonate.
12	12	"Avengers: Impossible!"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	October 20, 2013	0.47[7]
The Avengers' world is turned upside down when the shapedshifting mischief-maker Impossible Man makes Falcon the star of his own action movie following their fight with the Wrecking Crew members Wrecker, Bulldozer, Piledriver, and Thunderball. Impossible Man even does various things to improve the movie. Things get worse when a Chitauri scouting party arrive which has been pursuing Impossible Man.
13	13	"In Deep"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action, Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	November 17, 2013	0.43[8]
Iron Man and Captain America disguise themselves as Grim Reaper and Crossbones (whom the Avengers previously captured) to infiltrate Red Skull's Cabal. When their disagreements over strategy causes their cover to be blown, they're forced to taking on the entire Cabal alone.
14	14	"Hulk's Day Out"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Jay Faerber	November 24, 2013	0.46[9]
When Hulk crash-lands on Earth with amnesia, Captain America, Hawkeye and Falcon reconstruct a day-in-the-life of Hulk to find out what world-ending threat could have knocked him out. They encounter Thing, Spider-Man, and Glorian along the way. Meanwhile, Iron Man tries to figure out what is behind the storm system that is affecting Earth and its connection with the Moon when the Avengers Team find the Badoon-Cylek causing havoc on the Moon.
15	15	"Planet Doom"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Paul Giacoppo	December 8, 2013	0.49[10]
After a brief argument with his father Odin over his obsession of Midgard, Thor briefly returns to Asgard after Heimdall reports that Midgard has disappeared from his vision. Thor finds the entire planet under the rule of Doctor Doom who has changed the past drastically to ensure that the Avengers team never formed where he healed Tony Stark, made a special suit to keep Bruce Banner safe from gamma radiation upon saving him, and never thawed out Captain America. Thor must team up with this timeline's Defenders to defeat Doctor Doom and undo the time change that Doctor Doom committed.
16	16	"Bring on the Bad Guys"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Eugene Son	February 16, 2014	0.53[11]
While meeting with Attuma, Dracula, and MODOK, Red Skull decide that the Cabal needs to be more cooperative if they are going to be defeat the Avengers team. The Avengers starts to see how tough the Cabal really is and how much strength they'll need to take it down once and for all.
17	17	"Savages"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Danielle Wolff	March 2, 2014	0.54[12]
When Iron Man becomes too reliant on his own tech, Captain America challenges him to go without it for one full day. The challenge is accepted but made far more complicated when Stark takes them to the Savage Land. They discover Justin Hammer in his latest "get into the Cabal" scheme that involves mining the Savage Land for a massive Vibranium deposit. Stark must motivate a local pacifist Rock Tribe to take action.
18	18	"Mojoworld"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	March 9, 2014	0.51[13]
Hulk and Hawkeye suddenly find themselves stuck in a death match at the hands of the intergalactic broadcasting master Mojo and gain an unlikely ally in the robot Torgo.
19	19	"The Ambassador"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action, Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	March 16, 2014	0.57[14]
The Avengers team puts their lives at risk to protect Doctor Doom (at the time when he is speaking at the United Nations) from the Cabal (due to Doctor Doom not taking Red Skull's offer to join them).
20	20	"All Father's Day"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	March 23, 2014	0.58[15]
Odin comes to Avengers Tower demanding that Thor ceases his "fun" on Midgard and return to Asgard. Thor promises that if he can't prove the good he does on Earth, he'll return home forever. Of course this proves to be a problem when Mangog arrives on Earth to get revenge on Odin.
21	21	"By the Numbers"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Justin Peniston	March 30, 2014	0.60[16]
The Avengers and the Cabal have a huge confrontation that leaves the team forever changed. Iron Man also learns that "the stats" can't be trusted every time as there's no substitutes for human intuition. This even proves a point to Iron Man when the Avengers and the Cabal target the Tesseract.
22	22	"Guardians & Space Knights"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Paul Giacoppo	April 6, 2014	0.52[17]
When Galactus attacks Earth to consume it, Iron Man is able to lead him to another planet. The Avengers track Iron Man's location to a distant planet where they discover that it is populated by the D'Bari and under the protection of the Guardians of the Galaxy. As the D'Bari are being evacuated as part of the Galactus Contingency Plan, the Avengers team and the Guardians of the Galaxy work to stop Galactus while wondering why Iron Man led Galactus to the D'Bari's planet.
23	23	"One Little Thing"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	April 13, 2014	0.66[18]
While Iron Man and Ant-Man are trying to stabilize Pym Particles that can shrink or grow matter, Falcon gives them terrible news that his mom Darlene is coming to visit and she has no idea he's an Avenger. While Iron Man and Ant-Man work to round up the Pym Particles, the others have to help Falcon convince his mom that he's still a S.H.I.E.L.D. liaison to the Avengers.
24	24	"Crime and Circuses"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Danielle Wolff	May 11, 2014	0.66[19]
When the Circus of Crime (consisting of Ringmaster, Strongman, Great Gambonnos, Human Cannonball, and Trick Shot) rolls in to town, Hawkeye's dark past begins to surface and puts the Avengers in danger. When Ringmaster mind-controls the other Avengers except Falcon, Hawkeye learns that being honest to his teammates is more important than trying to hide his mistakes from his past. To combat the Circus of Crime, Hawkeye enlists a former member named Princess Python.
25	25	"Exodus"	Jeff Allen	Man of Action & Jacob Semahn	May 18, 2014	N/A
Iron Man's confidence is shaken after he inadvertently puts Falcon in harm's way. When the Cabal pulls the trigger on its final plans, Iron Man has to put aside his personal dilemmas and become the leader he was born to be.
26	26	"The Final Showdown"	Tim Eldred	Man of Action & Paul Giacoppo	May 25, 2014	N/A
With the Tesseract now in the hands of the Cosmic Skull, the world is in catastrophic peril. Iron Man realizes teaming up with the rest of the Cabal might be their only chance for a victory.
Season 2 (2014–15)
On July 26, 2014, the series was renewed for a second season;[20] The first half of the second season deals with the team facing Thanos, as he competes with them to obtain the Infinity Stones, followed by a five-episode arc detailing the return of Ultron, who plans to exterminate the human race. The rest of the season details the debut of the Squadron Supreme and their confrontation with the Avengers.[20] The last two episodes detail the escape of Thanos by the Black Order and their attack on Earth.

No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date [3]	US viewers
(millions)
27	1	"The Arsenal"	Tim Eldred	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	September 28, 2014	N/A
When Red Skull comes crashing down to Earth with a fleet of alien ships chasing him, the Avengers learn there's a villain in their midst a thousand times more dangerous than the Cabal ever was by the name of Thanos. Upon finding the Power Infinity Gem in Red Skull's possession, the Avengers team is led to a gamma-high city to look for something called Arsenal.
28	2	"Thanos Rising"	Phil Pignotti	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	October 5, 2014	N/A
With the help of Arsenal, the Avengers must stop Thanos from gaining the Infinity Gems (an energy source so powerful that it could cause mass destruction). Their fight takes them to the Blue Area of the Moon where Uatu the Watcher allows the Avengers to use his base to find out what they need to know about Thanos.
29	3	"Valhalla Can Wait"	Tim Eldred	Jacob Semahn	October 12, 2014	N/A
Thanks to the tricks of Loki, Hulk and Thor are tricked into a battle and transported to Valhalla to find out who is the strongest once and for all. But under Hela's rule, only the loser of their contest may return to Planet Earth while the winner will become her consort and champion. While this is happening, Loki uses Hela's horn to unleash an army of skeletons to invade Earth.
30	4	"Ghosts of the Past"	Phil Pignotti	Todd Casey	October 26, 2014	N/A
Red Skull has information that could help the Avengers save the world from Thanos, but an intruder kidnaps Red Skull before they can retrieve it. Captain America discovers that the trespasser is none other than his old partner Bucky Barnes (now the Winter Soldier) who is back seeking revenge on Red Skull.
31	5	"Beneath the Surface"	Tim Eldred	Paul Giacoppo	November 2, 2014	N/A
When Hawkeye and Black Widow stumble upon the Serpent Crown, they must work together with the Atlanteans led by Attuma's former adviser Lady Zartra to stop Attuma's battalion from destroying Atlantis and controlling the Atlantean beast Giganto.
32	6	"Nighthawk"	Phil Pignotti	Todd Casey	November 9, 2014	N/A
When a mysterious new villain named Nighthawk uses the individualized counter measures Falcon created when he was at S.H.I.E.L.D. to take out the Avengers one by one, Falcon must figure out a way to save his team and even learns how he is connected to Hyperion.
33	7	"The Age of Tony Stark"	Tim Eldred	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	November 16, 2014	N/A
When the Time Infinity Gem becomes attached to Tony Stark's arc reactor, it causes him to begin de-aging and brings dangers from other eras (like dinosaurs, futuristic robots and lost HYDRA squadrons) into present-day New York City. Things get worse when Red Skull is freed during the crisis and restored to his sanity.
34	8	"Head to Head"	Phil Pignotti	Michael Ryan	January 25, 2015	0.57[21]
After stopping A.I.M. from launching a missile, Iron Man thinks that the Avengers are almost perfect. When MODOK uses the Mind Infinity Gem to take control of S.H.I.E.L.D., the Avengers must work in each other's bodies when their minds are switched to defeat MODOK and claim the Mind Infinity Gem. Now its up to Hawkeye (in Thor's body) to convince Iron Man (in Hawkeye's body) that they have to become more than perfect.
35	9	"The Dark Avengers"	Tim Eldred	Len Wein	February 1, 2015	N/A
In a flipped reality where superheroes are supervillains and vice versa, Iron Man gets a strange vision after battling the Squadron Supreme (consisting of Nighthawk, Hyperion, Power Princess, Doctor Spectrum, and Speed Demon). He and the "evil" versions of the other Avengers discover that the Squadron Supreme have the Reality Infinity Gem, and have used it to change the world in their image.
36	10	"Back to the Learning Hall"	Phil Pignotti	Jacob Semahn	February 8, 2015	N/A
Thor is called into returning to Asgard as a guest to Asgard's Hall of Learning for the Learning Games as Hulk and Hawkeye follow him. The visions of Loki lure Thor, Hulk and Hawkeye into the chambers of the Learning Games where failure is a one-way portal to Valhalla. Meanwhile, earthquakes occur on Earth as the result of Earth and Asgard being pulled towards each other by the Space Infinity Gem which is in Loki's possession.
37	11	"Downgraded"	Tim Eldred	Danielle Wolff	February 15, 2015	N/A
After the Avengers stop the Wrecking Crew from using weaponry from an abandoned A.I.M. warehouse, Falcon shows Hawkeye his upgraded weaponry for the group where an Asgard rune transports them to Vanaheim. Once there, a Shadow Nyx drained the electricity from it and they are saved by Freya. Falcon must prove to himself and a skeptical Hawkeye that he's still a hero when preventing the Shadow Nyx from overtaking Vanaheim and restarting the great light that kept them at bay. As a result of Hawkeye and Falcon being transported to Vanaheim, two Shadow Nyx have appeared in Manhattan and the rest of the Avengers must keep them from draining Earth's energies.
38	12	"Widow's Run"	Phil Pignotti	Eugene Son	February 22, 2015	0.82[22]
Black Widow and Thor work to carry out Black Widow's plan to rid the Earth of the Infinity Gems upon Black Widow having a vision of Tony Stark using the Infinity Gems to become Emperor Stark and to dispose of them before Thanos returns to Earth. After an attempt to hide them in Asgard fails due to Black Widow's vision of Heimdall ruling Asgard, Black Widow and Thor are attacked by the Guardians of the Galaxy until the Avengers come to their aid. Afterwards, the Avengers are warned by Doctor Strange about the effects that the Infinity Gems are having on reality as Dormammu emerges from the portal. Seeing the fall of the Avengers, Black Widow uses the power of the stones. She manages to save them but the gems end up corrupting her. With the help of the team, she gives up the gems. Before they can take them to a safe location, Thanos returns and takes control of them. The Avengers are left behind to see the end of the universe.
39	13	"Thanos Triumphant"	Tim Eldred	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	March 1, 2015	0.83[23]
With the power and might of all five Infinity Stones, Thanos plans to wield his power over the Universe while the Avengers make a desperate attempt to stop him. The team is able to rebuild Arsenal and defeat Thanos. Unfortunately, Arsenal is possessed by Ultron who uses Arsenal's absorbing powers to take the power of the Infinity Gauntlet for himself.
40	14	"Crack in the System"	Phil Pignotti	Danielle Wolff	April 12, 2015	N/A
With the body of Arsenal and the power of the Infinity Gauntlet in his possession, Ultron begins his murderous campaign against humanity by taking control of technology from Hammer Industries and A.I.M. To free Arsenal from Ultron's control, Iron Man works on a destroyer malware to deactivate Ultron. Iron Man finds out Ultron is at A.I.M base using his Ultron detector, which he does not share with his team. Later he claims he was suspicious and hence he did not share the details. During fight with Ultron, Tony is able to inject Ultron with Destroyer Malware with help of his teammates. Anyhow, he destroys only 95% of Ultron, being emotional about Arsenal and Ultron is able to reboot and defeat Tony. This angers Captain America as Tony did not destroy Ultron as discussed earlier by the team and risked many lives on Earth for his personal emotions on Arsenal. At the end, Captain America leaves the Avengers after an argument with Tony.
41	15	"Avengers Disassembled"	Tim Eldred	Jacob Semahn	April 19, 2015	N/A
After Captain America leaves the Avengers following Iron Man withholding recent information about Ultron, Roxxon is attacked by a rebuilt Super-Adaptoid who is being controlled by Ultron. The Avengers and Spider-Man fight Super-Adaptoid until Captain America arrives where Ultron takes control of the S.H.I.E.L.D. drop team that is made up of Life Model Decoys. Afterwards, Ultron takes control of Avengers Tower and Iron Man's Hall of Armors. When Ultron takes control over Stark's satellites to launch missiles, Iron Man destroys Avengers Tower and his tech to avoid it. After Spider-Man leaves upon being unable to convince Captain America and Iron Man to not argue, the Avengers are divided into two teams: one led by Tony having Hawkeye and Thor on his side and the other led by Captain America having Black Widow, Hulk and Falcon on his side. At the end of the episode, it is seen that Ultron's first mission of disassembling the Avengers is done successfully.
42	16	"Small Time Heroes"	Phil Pignotti	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	April 26, 2015	N/A
Following the destruction of Avengers Tower, the Avengers are divided into two different teams where Iron Man, Hawkeye and Thor have barely defeated Absorbing Man and Titania. Ant-Man helps Tony Stark repair his Iron Man armor and even helps his part of the Avengers when A.I.M. Agents steal the Pym Particles so that MODOK can use its powers to evade having his cybernetics taken over by Ultron.
43	17	"Secret Avengers"	Tim Eldred	Paul Giacoppo	May 3, 2015	N/A
Captain America, Black Widow, Hulk, and Falcon (as Secret Avengers) discover that working for S.H.I.E.L.D. isn't everything they hoped for when they're expected to unquestionably follow orders in a dangerous situation involving Crimson Dynamo and the Winter Guard when Crimson Dynamo gets the key to a power source that is something the Avengers least suspect.
44	18	"The Ultron Outbreak"	Phil Pignotti	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	April 28, 2015	N/A
The Avengers reunite when Captain America and Iron Man learn to appreciate their differences while trying to save the world from ultimate destruction at the hands of Ultron who uses a special nano-virus to turn Falcon into a carrier to convert all humans into Ultron Sentinels. As Ant-Man works on a cure for the nano-virus after Falcon is detained, Captain America and Iron Man go after Ultron while the others attempts to slow down the infection. In the end before Ant-Man's cure gives Falcon enough freewill to install a program to restore all converted humans, Iron Man manages to trick Ultron into the following him into the Astro Carrier while setting its course for the sun. Though Ultron attempts to escape the suicidal death trap while converting Iron Man, Arsenal overrides Ultron long enough to blast off to the sun while Iron Man is retrieved by Thor. With the Avengers reunited, Captain America and Iron Man invite Ant-Man to their team.
45	19	"The New Guy"	Tim Eldred	Charlotte Fullerton & Kevin Rubio	May 17, 2015	N/A
Since joining the Avengers following the defeat of Ultron, Ant-Man (revealed to be Scott Lang) has helped them by taking out Fin Fang Foom. Under Captain America's suggestion, Hawkeye puts Ant-Man through an Avengers training course on Monster Isle to determine if he is cut out to be a member of the Avengers. Captain America, Hawkeye and Ant-Man are unaware that Red Skull and a small army of Mindless Ones are nearby planning to cloak himself from Thanos using Dormammu's powers.
46	20	"Terminal Velocity"	Phil Pignotti	Jacob Semahn	July 5, 2015	0.38[24]
The Squadron Supreme's fastest member Speed Demon is on the loose and wreaking havoc throughout Avengers Tower. Hulk must save the day by fighting the Speed Demon while the other Avengers fight Hyperion.
47	21	"Spectrums"	Tim Eldred	Danielle Wolff	July 12, 2015	0.34[25]
Ant-Man begins to atone by bringing his former allies to justice where he starts with reclaiming his technology from Whirlwind. His quest for redemption leads him and the team to an epic battle with Doctor Spectrum (who was one of the people Ant-Man sold his technology to) as he is assisted in battle by Captain America, Iron Man, and Thor. During the battle, Spectrum uses his powers to manifest nightmarish versions of Ultron, Loki and Winter Soldier to attack Iron Man, Thor, and Captain America. Meanwhile, the others enter Hyperion's sunken citadel to see what the Squadron Supreme are planning and they learn a shocking secret about Doctor Spectrum's Power Prism: the Prism happens to be not only a power source and weapon, but also a living entity with full control over its host... plus, the true Doctor Spectrum.
48	22	"Midgard Crisis"	Phil Pignotti	Paul Giacoppo	July 19, 2015	0.52[26]
Thor is convinced that Zarda wants to defect from Squadron Supreme, but Hulk knows better and must protect Thor from Zarda's duplicitous ways.
49	23	"Avengers' Last Stand"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	July 26, 2015	N/A
Falcon tries to prove he can be a leader when the Squadron Supreme enacts their end game and kidnaps Captain America and Iron Man. Things become even more difficult when the Avengers discover the Squadron Supreme's last few plots were all part of an even bigger plan to revive their previously unknown sixth member, Nuke.
50	24	"Avengers Underground"	Phil Pignotti	Danielle Wolff	August 2, 2015	0.58[27]
The Squadron Supreme has taken over Earth where they managed to thwart the Atlanteans on Attuma's side, shackle Red Hulk, trap Doctor Strange in a special trap, and keep Spider-Man occupied with one of their robots. Unbeknownst to the Squadron Supreme and the rest of the world, the Avengers are in hiding and working on a plan to save the planet and stop the Squadron Supreme once and for all. The Avengers pull a surprise attack on the Squadron Supreme that not even Nighthawk is prepared for. In desperation as part of his contingency plan, Nighthawk has Hyperion absorb Nuke's powers and orders him to destroy the planet by blowing up its core.
51	25	"New Frontiers"	Tim Eldred	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	September 13, 2015	0.47[28]
The Black Order (consisting of Corvus Glaive, Proxima Midnight, Ebony Maw, Black Dwarf, and Supergiant) has infiltrated a special prison where they end up taking out its defenses and freeing their master Thanos. When the Korbinite Jeter Kan Too of New Korbin begs the Avengers to save them from mysterious invaders, the team discovers that Thanos and his Black Order are plundering New Korbin. Meanwhile, Tony seeks new challenges for the team.
52	26	"Avengers World"	Phil Pignotti	Kevin Burke & Chris "Doc" Wyatt	September 20, 2015	0.52[29]
When Thanos and the Black Order attack Earth, they finally plan to take over the planet by destroying the Avengers. The Avengers discovers they are more than eight heroes....The Avengers are an ideal.
Season 3: Ultron Revolution (2016–17)
Ultron returns after his apparent demise and seeks revenge on the Avengers. The Avengers must defeat him as well as new threats like Baron Zemo's Masters of Evil and Kang the Conqueror. Vision, Black Panther, Captain Marvel, and Ms. Marvel make appearances in this season. The storyline features an adaptation of the Civil War comics storyline.[1] Season three premiered on Disney XD on March 13, 2016.

No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date [3][30]	Prod.
code [3]	US viewers
(millions)
53	1	"Adapting to Change"	Phil Pignotti	Eugene Son	March 13, 2016	301	0.39[31]
Following a fight with the Masters of Evil members Beetle, Goliath, and Screaming Mimi, the Avengers learn what it is like to work as a team again as they battle new and improved Adaptoids that were developed by A.I.M.'s Scientist Supreme. The Adaptoids were developed through a combination of the Super-Adaptoid technology and some unknown space metal.
54	2	"The Ultimates"	Tim Eldred	Danielle Wolff	March 20, 2016	302	0.41[32]
After absorbing the remnants of the space metal used for the Scientist Supreme's Adaptoids, Ultron returns and plans to replace humanity with robots starting with duplicates of the Avengers known as Ultimates. Now the Avengers must work in a way that they can defeat the Ultimates while fending off Ultron.
55	3	"Saving Captain Rogers"	Phil Pignotti	Mairghread Scott	March 27, 2016	303	0.40[33]
Iron Man and Black Widow head out to find Captain America when he goes missing from Avengers Tower. In Europe, Captain America battles to rescue Bucky who has been captured by Baron Heinrich Zemo. What is really happening is that Captain America has been hypnotized by Baron Helmut Zemo into finding his father's laboratory so that he can find the two super-soldier serums that he perfected.
56	4	"Under Siege"	Tim Eldred	Matt Wayne	April 3, 2016	304	0.38[34]
While the Avengers are investigating one of Baron Helmut Zemo's possible hideout somewhere in South America, Hawkeye is left to defend Avengers Tower from Baron Helmut Zemo who has taken the Masters of Evil members Beetle, Fixer, Goliath, Moonstone, and Screaming Mimi under his leadership.
57	5	"The Thunderbolts"	Phil Pignotti	Mark Hoffmeier	April 10, 2016	305	0.46[35]
The Avengers fight to stop Justin Hammer's new weapons factories, but are both helped and hindered by a mysterious new team of heroes known as the Thunderbolts ever since they helped to stop the stimuloid Growing Man.
58	6	"Thunderbolts Revealed"	Tim Eldred	Kevin Shinick	April 17, 2016	306	0.47[36]
Still suspicious about the Thunderbolts following a fight with Ulysses Klaue, Hawkeye spies on them and discovers that they are actually Baron Helmut Zemo and the Masters of Evil, using an Inversion Stabilizer they stole from Stark Industries to disguise themselves in a plot to outshine the Avengers. When Hawkeye tells the other Avengers about this, the rest of the Thunderbolts must decide on whether they should continue to work with Zemo or help the Avengers stop him.
59	7	"Into the Dark Dimension"	Phil Pignotti	Danielle Wolff	April 24, 2016	307	0.48[37]
On Halloween, Doctor Strange comes to Iron Man, Hulk, and Thor for help when Mindless Ones and winged demons from the Dark Dimension appear on Earth. When Dormammu briefly appears near Stark Industries' Arc Reactor, he manages to steal the Eye of Agamotto from Doctor Strange. Now Iron Man and Doctor Strange must put aside their differences in science and magic to reclaim the Eye of Agamotto and defeat Dormammu before he makes plans to conquer Earth and other dimensions.

Note: This episode was originally set to air in October, but was pushed back for unknown reasons.
60	8	"Dehulked"	Tim Eldred	Paul Giacoppo	May 1, 2016	308	0.45[38]
Bruce Banner's old lab assistant Igor Drenkov leads a group called the SteelCorps in a fight against the Avengers at Stark Industries and uses a gamma energy-stealing weapon on Hulk. Now depowered, Bruce has to show the other Avengers he is still their teammate as Drenkov plans to use the stolen gamma energy to become the hero he wanted to be.
61	9	"Inhumans Among Us"	Phil Pignotti	Paul Dini	July 24, 2016	309	0.41[39]
When the townspeople of Maple Falls are frightened by the sudden appearance of Alpha Primitives from a crashed ship, the Avengers attempt to help them but put themselves into conflict with the Inhumans Black Bolt, Medusa, Gorgon, Karnak, Lockjaw, and Seeker. While Hulk and Lockjaw work to get the Terrigen Crystal for a device that will help dispose of the Terrigen Mist that drove the Alpha Primitives crazy, the Avengers and Inhumans must work together to deal with the recently-emerged Inhuman Inferno.

Note: During the fight between the Inhumans and the Avengers, there is a police officer that bears a conspicuous resemblance to Barney Fife from The Andy Griffith Show. Crystal is absent.
62	10	"The Inhuman Condition"	Tim Eldred	Tom Pugsley	July 31, 2016	310	0.35[40]
Lockjaw brings the Avengers to Attilan when most of the Inhuman Royal Family has been captured. The Avengers and Black Bolt discover that Ultron is behind the capture of the Inhumans. After phase-shifting Seeker, Ultron begins his next plot to eliminate humankind where he ends up using Black Bolt as a power source. Now the Avengers must free the Inhumans and stop Ultron before he uses his dangerous weapon onto the Earth.
63	11	"The Kids Are Alright"	Phil Pignotti	Eugene Son	August 7, 2016	311	0.48[41]
Captain America and Iron Man join forces with Inferno and a new Inhuman named Ms. Marvel when they fight a stray Ultron robot. While giving Inferno and Ms. Marvel a tour of Avengers Tower, they end up dealing with Iron Man's old enemy Ghost whose awakened Inhuman abilities have enhanced his phasing abilities as he plans to steal Friday while disabling each of the Avengers one-by-one.
64	12	"The Conqueror"	Tim Eldred	Stan Berkowitz	August 14, 2016	312	0.43[42]
The Avengers try to stop A.I.M. from stealing high-tech weapons from the future ever since it was discovered that they upgraded the gear of Whiplash and Spymaster. Their fight with A.I.M. attracts the attention of the 30th-century warlord Kang the Conqueror since it was his technology that A.I.M. used as he takes control of the A.I.M. Agents present.
65	13	"Into the Future"	Phil Pignotti	Danielle Wolff	August 21, 2016	313	N/A
With the exception of Thor, the Avengers become trapped in the 30th century which Kang the Conqueror rules over. With the help of an elderly Thor, a future version of Black Widow named Layla, and the local rebels, the Avengers try to beat the future robots of Kang the Conqueror.
66	14	"Seeing Double"	Tim Eldred	Jacob Semahn	August 28, 2016	314	N/A
After Hulk and Black Widow defeat Abomination, Hulk is ambushed by HYDRA Agents and regressed to Bruce Banner enough to be captured. Upon alerting Captain America and Iron Man upon trailing the HYDRA Agents to Siberia, Black Widow discovers that Baron Strucker has reactivated the Red Room program where she meets his student Yelena Belova. Black Widow also discovers that Baron Strucker is using the Winter Soldier program to turn Hulk into the Winter Hulk.
67	15	"A Friend in Need"	Phil Pignotti	Mark Banker	September 11, 2016	315	N/A
Vision assists the Avengers in their fight against Cobalt Man. Afterwards, Vision takes friendship lessons from Thor who takes him to Asgard to show how his friends helped him in defeating Ulik, Harokin, Fenris Wolf, Fafnir, and Loki. After Ulik briefly breaks out, Vision ends up taken over by Ultron until Vision fights his control enough for Ultron to take control of the Destroyer Armor. When Ultron in the Destroyer Armor arrives on Earth, Vision must help the Avengers defeat Ultron.
68	16	"Captain Marvel"	Tim Eldred	Rick Williams & Jenna McGrath	September 18, 2016	316	N/A
Captain America, Thor, and Falcon join Captain Marvel when it comes to a group of Kree soldiers led by Galen-Kor who are planning to give the recently-emerged Inhumans to the Kree Empire and even plan to give them Captain Marvel as a bonus. Outside of the Avengers having to thwart Galen-Kor's plot, they also have to prevent the Kree from using a missile that would emit a dangerous gas on Earth that has no effect on the Kree.
69	17	"Panther's Rage"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	September 25, 2016	317	0.37[43]
As T'Challa speaks before an assembly, Captain America protects the assembly from Crossbones who has been hired to assassinate T'Challa. After helping Captain America take out Crossbones, T'Challa makes off with Captain America's shield claiming it was stolen property. In an attempt to get it back, Captain America leads Iron Man, Thor, and Hawkeye to Wakanda to confront Black Panther who claims that Howard Stark stole the Vibranium to make Captain America's shield. When a reassembled Ulysses Klaue targets the Vibranium, Black Panther must put his differences aside so that he and Dora Milaje member Aneka can help the Avengers fight Ulysses Klaue.
70	18	"Ant-Man Makes It Big"	Tim Eldred	Dani Michaeli	October 2, 2016	318	N/A
On the set of a superhero motion picture called "Human Ant and the Revengers", Hawkeye and Black Widow team up with Ant-Man to stop the disgruntled prop master Egghead from destroying Los Angeles with living robots, sentient Lava Men suits, and autopilot egg exo-suits. Meanwhile, Thor takes actor Tad McDodd who is portraying Viking King around to see what it was like to be Thor.[44]
71	19	"The House of Zemo"	Michah Gunnell	Paul Giacoppo	October 9, 2016	319	0.42[45]
While trying to recall the images of his father for his painting, Captain America is tipped off about suspicious activities at the docks. Once there, Captain America discovers that Baron Helmut Zemo has returned and has used Kang the Conqueror's technology to bring his father Baron Heinrich Zemo from 1943 to the present to restore the honor of the House of Zemo. During the battle between the Avengers and the Zemos, Hawkeye, Black Widow, and Falcon are sent to 1943 where they work with a younger Steve Rogers to make an antenna that would signal the time machine. At the same time, the others battle the great-great-grandson of Baron Heinrich Zemo who has been brought from the year 2099 when Helmut started to become a disappointment.
72	20	"U-Foes"	Tim Eldred	Mairghread Scott	November 6, 2016	320	N/A
The President of the United States has signed the New Powers Act in response to the Terrigen Fog creating new Inhumans and Truman Marsh is assigned to be the Avengers' liaison to the government. Meanwhile, scientists backed by HYDRA enter a gamma storm with a stolen spaceship and are transformed into the U-Foes where they plan to take over HYDRA when Baron Strucker hasn't returned.
73	21	"Building the Perfect Weapon"	Micah Gunnell	Stan Berkowitz	November 13, 2016	321	N/A
Following Truman Marsh replacing Hulk with Red Hulk, the Avengers fight off an invasion of Rock Trolls. Afterwards, the Avengers must stop Leader from building and unleashing his secret weapon with stolen A.I.M. technology even when he uses Ultimo on them. Meanwhile, Hulk had been placed in an obedience collar and wanders around while figuring out what to do next.
74	22	"World War Hulk"	Tim Eldred	Jacob Semahn	November 20, 2016	322	N/A
Now that Leader has used his particle-accelerating gamma bomb to turn Red Hulk into "his ultimate weapon", the Avengers must stop Red Hulk from going on a rampage after Leader loses control of him. First, they have to find Hulk who ends up being advised on what to do by his Bruce Banner side.
75	23	"Civil War"	Micah Gunnell	Danielle Wolff
Elliott Casey
Eugene Son	January 28, 2017	323	N/A
78	26	Tim Eldred	326
Part 1: The Fall of Attilan: When Maximus attacks a whole city, Truman Marsh decides to have all Inhumans hunted down and registered. When Maximus gets Inferno angry, he loses control of his powers and Attilan burns to the ground. The Avengers then decide to help get all Inhumans registered while working to defeat Maximus.

Part 2: The Mighty Avengers: When the Avengers let the Inhuman Iso escape from them without being registered, Truman Marsh gets angry and the Avengers quit working for him. Marsh then forms a new Avengers team called The Mighty Avengers (consisting of Red Hulk, Captain Marvel, Vision, Ms. Marvel, Black Panther, Ant-Man, and Songbird) to go and hunt down the Inhumans while also thwarting Baron Strucker's plot. But when the Avengers get in the way at the hiding place of Iso, Flint, and Haechi, they are forced to battle. Songbird joins the original Avengers when she realizes that this isn't what the right thing to do is. The Avengers then get arrested, but Black Widow escapes.

Part 3: The Drums of War: The Avengers are broken out of jail by Black Widow and they are joined by Black Bolt and Medusa. But everything goes wrong when the registration disks actually places the Inhumans under mind-control. The Mighty Avengers then decide to join the original Avengers when one of their own is forced to be registered. The Mighty Avengers and the original Avengers get it all sorted out and they go to face Truman Marsh who turns out to be Ultron in disguise.

Part 4: Avengers Revolution: Ultron attacks New York and all the Avengers (new and old) go to stop him. Ultron uses all the Inhumans to attack the humans of Earth so that only he and his robot army will be left. The Avengers go to regroup at Dr. Strange's Sanctum Sanctorum. Ant-Man and Iron Man have a way to disable the registration disks and some of the other Avengers go to fight Ultron and the others go with Iron Man and Ant-Man. Ant-Man and Iron Man are quickly working on a solution, but not before they are found by the Inhumans. They send the others to fight them while they work. Iron Man and Ant-Man find a solution and test it on Inferno, and it works. Everything seems to be going good until Ultron orders his sentries to destroy all life on Earth. Ultron then transfers his consciousnesses into a vibranium body in Wakanda. The Avengers attack Ultron and fail to stop him. Ultron then goes to destroy humans when the Avengers go to battle him. They then crash the Avenjet into Ultron. Vision then reverses the ray Ultron was going to use to destroy the humans and it hits Ultron. Ultron then moves over his consciousnesses to Iron Man's Armor and his mind. Just as the Avengers are about to destroy Ultron and Tony, Dr. Strange shows up and creates a dimension where Ultron won't be able to come back. Tony and the original Avengers go into the dimension and Dr. Strange saves Tony. But he has to stay in the dimension so Ultron can't leave. The Avengers go back to Earth and leave Tony, but Falcon links the communication system to be inter-dimensional so that they can communicate with Tony.
Season 4: Secret Wars (2017–18)
This season deals with the Avengers being scattered across time and space by a new incarnation of the Cabal as Black Panther assembles another incarnation of the Avengers to find them in time to save the universe.[46]

No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	US viewers
(millions)
79	1	"...Assemble"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	August 8, 2017	TBA	N/A
Compilation of "Teaser", "Black Panther", "Captain Marvel", "Ant-Man and Wasp", "Vision", and "Ms. Marvel" shorts.
80	2	"Avengers No More"	Tim Eldred
Michah Gunnell	Elliott Casey
Gavin Hignight	June 17, 2017	404[47]	0.21[48]
81	3	405
Part 1: As the Avengers find a way to return Iron Man to their reality without bringing Ultron along, they managed to prevent Ghost from stealing Stark Industries technology at the Stark Expo monitored by Stark Industries' cross-dimensional research scientist Jane Foster whom Thor takes a liking to. After swiping the prototype Arc Reactor, Leader heads to the Wakandan Consulate to steal the Vibranium there with his army of Humanoids. When a guilt-ridden Thor helps Black Panther take down Leader when the Avengers arrive, Leader summons his new incarnation of the Cabal (consisting of Arnim Zola, Enchantress, Executioner, and Kang the Conqueror) to fight the Avengers while taking advantage of Iron Man not being there.

Part 2: When the Avengers are trapped by the effects of the Static Expander made from the stolen Stark Industries technology, Black Panther escapes with the stolen Vibranium and avoids Executioner to get a team to help him. Upon awakening Vision who helps him fight Executioner and his pet Asgardian dire wolf as well as Enchantress reclaiming the Vibranium for Leader, Black Panther and Vision must lead Ant-Man, Captain Marvel, Ms. Marvel, and Wasp (as The All-New, All-Different Avengers) into finding the Avengers so that they can stop the Cabal.
82	4	"The Sleeper Awakens"	Tim Eldred	Henry Gilroy	August 27, 2017	406[49]	N/A
After the Avengers disappeared without a trace following a fight with the Cabal, Black Panther brings the New Avengers to his new mansion. They find Captain America alive, but Vision discovers that he is a robot sent by Red Skull, who called the New Avengers for help when his new A.I. system in the Sleeper turns on him. Vision repairs this Skullbot and keeps it as a pet.
83	5	"Prison Break"	Micah Gunnell	Danielle Wolff	August 27, 2017	407[50]	N/A
Yelena Belova returns where she is now calling herself Crimson Widow. She allies herself with Zarda and Typhoid Mary in a plot to spring all the inmates at the Vault. Only Captain Marvel and Wasp can stop this escape.
84	6	"The Incredible Herc"	Tim Eldred	Geoffrey Thorne	August 27, 2017	408[51]	N/A
Hercules shows up on Earth wanting to be a member of the New Avengers. However, it turns out he's hiding from Ares who is seeking to steal the key to Tartarus from him. At the same time, Captain Marvel and Black Panther argue over who's leader of the new team.
85	7	"Show Your Work"	Micah Gunnell	Zach Craley	August 27, 2017	409[52]	N/A
Taskmaster reluctantly allies himself with the New Avengers to stop MODOK from repopulating the Earth with his clones. At the same time, he tries to teach Ms. Marvel how to take shortcuts in life against Vision's judgement.
86	8	"Sneakers"	Tim Eldred	Shaene Siders	August 27, 2017	410[53]	N/A
Ant-Man and Black Panther jet off to Wakanda when Baron Helmut Zemo goes after a powerful relic hidden away by Black Panther's father T'Chaka and Baron Heinrich Zemo.
87	9	"Why I Hate Halloween"	Micah Gunnell	Geoffrey Thorne	October 8, 2017	403[54]	N/A
On Halloween, the Avengers raid an underground Hydra base where they find that its scientist Whitney Frost has been doing experiments related to vampires. Upon taking her to the safe house named "Beach House" in Vermont while the others fight the attacking vampires, Hawkeye must protect Whitney Frost from the vengeful forces of Dracula and his vampires even when Crossbones and Crimson Widow show up to reclaim Whitney Frost.

Note #1: Wynn Everett reprises her role of Whitney Frost from Agent Carter.

Note #2: Despite airing during Season 4, the timeline of this episode takes place during Season 3.
88	10	"The Once and Future Kang"	Micah Gunnell	Shannon Eric Denton	October 15, 2017	411[55]	N/A
After Jane Foster finds where each of the Avengers is located, she provides the New Avengers with special tether bracelets to rescue the Avengers from the location where the Cabal is overseeing. Vision and Wasp head to the future to save Falcon who has joined forces with Kang the Conqueror. They must work with the rebels led by a future version of Red Hulk to free Falcon from Kang the Conqueror's control.

Note: Beginning in this episode, Falcon's appearance resembles his appearance in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
89	11	"Dimension Z"	Tim Eldred	Geoffrey Thorne	October 15, 2017	412[56]	N/A
Ant-Man travels to another dimension called Dimension Z to rescue Black Widow, Captain America, and Hawkeye from Arnim Zola, brainwashed operatives, and a group of Doughboys.
90	12	"The Most Dangerous Hunt"	Micah Gunnell	Henry Gilroy	October 22, 2017	413[57]	N/A
In the Asgardian wilderness, Black Panther and Hulk find themselves chained together and on the run from Executioner who uses a special crystal on his axe to control Hulk's transformations. While making their way to Asgard to access the Bifrost Bridge, they must avoid Executioner, Ulik and a fellow Rock Troll, and a group of Asgardian Goblins.
91	13	"Under the Spell of the Enchantress"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	October 22, 2017	414[58]	0.25[59]
Captain Marvel and Ms. Marvel travel to an icy asteroid to rescue Thor from the Enchantress. They fight Enchantress who has brainwashed Thor to be her bodyguard as well as fighting brainwashed warriors and monstrous snowmen.
92	14	"The Return"	Micah Gunnell	Danielle Wolff	October 22, 2017	415[60]	0.16[59]
After returning to Earth, the Avengers and the New Avengers discover the Earth has been taken over by Loki who used the Casket of Ancient Winters and is revealed to be the true leader of the Cabal. The Avengers and the New Avengers must fight Loki and his army of Frost Trolls while preventing the World Breaker ships above Manhattan from destroying Earth.
93	15	"New Year's Resolution"	Tim Eldred	Danielle Wolff	December 3, 2017	402[61]	0.40[62]
Past and present collide on New Year's Eve as Howard Stark and Peggy Carter are suddenly brought to the present from 1949. They team up with Iron Man and Captain America to save the time stream from Kang the Conqueror who seeks to eliminate Howard or Tony Stark to ensure that his enemy Iron Man 2020 doesn't exist. At the same time, it was discovered that Doctor Faustus was brought along for the ride as Howard and Peggy had him locked in their trunk after apprehending him.

Note #1: Hayley Atwell reprises her role as Peggy Carter from the Marvel Cinematic Universe.

Note #2: Despite airing during Season 4, the timeline of this episode takes place during Season 3.
94	16	"The Eye of Agamotto"	Tim Eldred
Micah Gunnell	Michael Vogel
Gavin Hignight	January 7, 2018	416[63]	N/A
95	17	417[64]
Part 1: The Avengers and the New Avengers fight Hydra when they break into a S.H.I.E.L.D. warehouse filled with magical items and make off with a specific talisman. To find where the talisman is taken, the Avengers and the New Avengers split into two groups. Captain America and Black Panther head to Hong Kong where they find Baron Mordo working on the Talisman of Kaluu. During this time, Black Panther's sister Shuri catches up to Black Panther and Captain America wanting to do more for Wakanda.

Part 2: Following Baron Mordo's defeat, the mysterious person who trapped him in another dimension needs help seeking Doctor Strange as Captain America and Black Panther give him a ride back to the Avengers Compound where Doctor Strange suddenly attacks them. He identifies the mysterious person as Agamotto who plans to take back the Eye of Agamotto and cleanse all of Earth of its chaos. He starts by using a shadow curse to take control of Captain America, Black Panther Hawkeye, and Ms. Marvel. Now Doctor Strange and Hulk must find a way to defeat Agamotto.
96	18	"Beyond"	Tim Eldred	Geoffrey Thorne	January 14, 2018	418[65]	N/A
After the Avengers are transported to a strange new world called Battleworld and find Avengers Tower rebuilt in the domain of Egyptia, they meet the Beyonder who states that they are here for his "experiment." While exploring Egyptia, Captain America and Black Widow find Iron Man due to the dimension he was in being made into the domain of No-Tech Land. In a pyramid in Egyptia, Captain America, Black Widow, and Iron Man battle the mysterious Moon Knight as well as an army of mummies with sand-based abilities.
97	19	"Underworld"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	January 14, 2018	419[66]	N/A
Loki appears at Avengers Tower where he wants to help them get back to Earth as Beyonder took parts of Asgard with him. As they search for the Bifrost Bridge when exploring the underground Battleworld domain of the NYC Underworld, Iron Man, Thor, Hulk, and Loki must battle the Enchantress as well as Rock-Skinned Rock Trolls from Nidavellir and unnamed slithering creatures that mostly operate in a strange mist.
98	20	"The Immortal Weapon"	Tim Eldred	Trevor Devall	January 14, 2018	420[67]	N/A
Iron Man and Loki begin rebuilding the Bifrost Bridge. While trying to retrieve Heimdall's sword from K'un-Lun, Black Panther and Falcon team up with Iron Fist to overcome Dracula (who was possessed by the Venom Symbiote enough to make him immune to sunlight) and his vampires. In addition, Dracula plans to head to a far-off Battleworld domain that is filled with more Symbiotes to empower his vampire army.
99	21	"The Vibranium Coast"	Micah Gunnell	Zach Craley	January 14, 2018	421[68]	N/A
As Iron Man and Loki continue rebuilding the Bifrost Bridge, Ant-Man and Ms. Marvel are sent to the Red Skull Sea somewhere off the Vibranium Coast to find some Vibranium. While at the Red Skull Sea, Ant-Man and Ms. Marvel reluctantly team up with a pirate version of Typhoid Mary to battle the evil pirate Dread Skull (a pirate version of Red Skull), his first-mate Crossbones, and an army of Skullbots.
100	22	"Weirdworld"	Tim Eldred	Danielle Wolff	March 4, 2018	422[69]	N/A
In the Battleworld domain of Weirdworld, Black Widow and Captain Marvel find that Bruce Banner is hunting Hulk. The two of them must stop the now-separated Bruce Banner and Hulk from hurting each other. In addition, they must also battle the evil Morgan le Fay who has duped Bruce Banner into capturing Hulk so that she can harness his powers and use them to take over the rest of Battleworld.
101	23	"Westland"	Micah Gunnell	Geoffrey Thorne	March 4, 2018	423[70]	N/A
Hawkeye, Vision, Loki, and Wasp head to Westland, an old west domain that is also containing dinosaurs to find Doctor Strange. They find him working as their doctor in the midst of an attack by a Kree Conquest Hive where Hawkeye is temporarily blinded. After running into Rocket Raccoon and Groot after their ship crashed, Vision finds Jane Foster who has been operating as Westland's sheriff under the alias of "Calamity Jane Foster."
102	24	"The Citadel"	Tim Eldred	Danielle Wolff	March 11, 2018	424[71]	N/A
Captain America and Iron Man are captured by the Beyonder and the villain team he has assembled from Absorbing Man, Ares, Crimson Widow, and MODOK. While Captain America works to evade the villains in Beyonder's lair, Iron Man is shown by Beyonder the truth of his experiment.
103	25	"The Wastelands"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	March 11, 2018	425[72]	N/A
Before they can use the Bifrost to undo Battleworld, the Avengers must defeat Ares and an army of Ghost Riders. As Doctor Strange and Loki work on the Bifrost, Thor throws Mjolnir to Jane Foster when she gets stuck in Beyonder's quicksand attack transforming her into a female Thor.
104	26	"All Things Must End"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	March 11, 2018	426[73]	N/A
After Loki becomes the Sorcerer Supreme following Beyonder's defeat, the Avengers are the only force standing between him and the domination of the universe even after he defeated Odin. While the Avengers and the New Avengers fight an army of Mindless Ones, Doctor Strange and Jane Foster's Thor form rescue Thor even when Loki unleashes the All Dark.
Season 5: Black Panther's Quest (2018–19)
On July 22, 2017, Avengers Assemble was renewed for a fifth and final season titled Avengers: Black Panther's Quest centering around Black Panther, and featuring a new type of animation.[2] However, unlike the previous seasons which shared continuity with Ultimate Spider-Man and Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., this one shares continuity with the 2017 Spider-Man animated series.

No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date	Prod.
code	US viewers
(millions)
105	1	"Shadow of Atlantis"	Micah Gunnell
Tim Eldred	Geoffrey Thorne	September 23, 2018	TBA	0.15[74]
106	2
Part 1: Black Panther holds a party to give the Avengers and their guests a formal introduction of Shuri until an attack by Atlantean soldiers led by Attuma's general Tiger Shark occurs. When Tiger Shark blows the Horn of Neptune, it summons a sea monster as Thor, Captain Marvel, and Ms. Marvel work to keep it from destroying the bridge.

Part 2: As the Avengers fight the straggling Atlantean soldiers, Tiger Shark has invaded the Wakandan Embassy with his elite soldiers as Black Panther rescues Shuri from him. After the Avengers take down some of his followers, Tiger Shark makes his way to the embassy's cultural art gallery to steal a jar for his mysterious benefactor.
107	3	"Into the Deep"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	September 30, 2018	TBA	N/A
Suspicious of Attuma following Tiger Shark's defeat, Black Panther and Shuri go on a dangerous mission to Atlantis. As Black Panther infiltrates the palace to get answers from an imprisoned Tiger Shark on why he was after a Wakandan crest, Shuri mingles with the diplomats where she runs into Wakanda's ambassador N'Jadaka who has a secret agenda that Black Panther and Attuma don't know about.
108	4	"The Panther and the Wolf"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	October 7, 2018	TBA	N/A
Black Panther and Shuri return to Wakanda to look for other enemies in light of N'Jadaka and Tiger Shark being associated with the Shadow Council. They run into Black Panther's adopted brother White Wolf who is said to have a supposed list of known Shadow Council operatives. As Black Panther chases after him, they are attacked by M'Baku and his mercenaries who have allied with the Shadow Council.
109	5	"The Zemo Sanction"	Micah Gunnell	Akela Cooper	October 14, 2018	TBA	N/A
After apprehending the Wakandan N'Basa who is on the Shadow Council's side, Black Panther informs Captain America in a transmission that the list White Wolf gave him has mentioned Baron Zemo many times as it was mentioned that Heinrich Zemo led the Shadow Council back in the 1940s. Tracking Zemo to Château le Fay in Switzerland, Black Panther finds that Baron Zemo is planning to destroy his father's files before it falls into the wrong hands. Both of them must work together when Tiger Shark targets the files for the Shadow Council.
110	6	"Mists of Attilan"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	October 21, 2018	TBA	N/A
After he and the Dora Milaje thwart Crossbones' plan to lead Hydra into invading Wakanda, Black Panther brings Ms. Marvel on a mission to Attilan. Due to T'Challa's grandfather T'Chanda making them do a promise to him, Black Bolt and Medusa are reluctant to give up the claw piece of a key. This causes Black Panther and Ms. Marvel to obtain it while Black Bolt and Medusa are arguing as they also deal with the shapeshifting Princess Zanda of Narobia who is on the Shadow Council.
111	7	"T'Challa Royale"	Micah Gunnell	Mark Henry	October 28, 2018	TBA	N/A
As Baron Zemo continues to decrypt his father's files, T'Challa finds that Wakanda's computers have been hacked and traces it to Pele Pele which T'Chaka and N'Jadaka couldn't develop due to volcanic activities. Upon arrival, he is hunted by Kraven the Hunter as part of the latest episode of "Kraven's Amazing Hunt" upon N'Jadaka allowing him and his production crew on Pele Pele. Even when he defeats Kraven, he'll still have to face N'Jadaka in his Killmonger alias. Meanwhile, Shuri and Zemo work to eliminate the Shadow Council's virus from Wakanda's computer systems.
112	8	"The Night Has Wings"	Tim Eldred	Zach Craley	November 4, 2018	TBA	N/A
After attending an event held by Tony Stark that followed him thwarting Crossbones' bank robbery, Black Panther answers a distress signal at a Wakandan village that has been attacked by a group of monsters from the old Wakandan stories called the Kawulo. Black Panther discovers that Ulysses Klaue is behind the attacks with the help of some mercenaries and mutated sonic-emitting bats nesting in Vibranium caves for centuries. These bats have been weaponized by Ulysses who equipped them with special collars to weaponize them.
113	9	"Mask of the Panther"	Micah Gunnell	Geoffrey Thorne	November 11, 2018	TBA	N/A
After thwarting Taskmaster's heist of a hyper-cannon, Black Panther heads to Antarctica with Captain America where they meet up with Hawkeye and a probationary Whitney Frost at S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Zebra Base where they find a Wakandan submarine called Yemandi's Cutter in ice as Black Panther suspects that the final key fragment is on board.
114	10	"The Good Son"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	November 18, 2018	510[75]	N/A
While surprised that Baron Zemo is in Black Panther's company, Captain America meets with Black Panther and Shuri to learn about the Panther Key that the Shadow Council used to weaponize a powerful Wakandan artifact before Captain America and Black Panther's grandfather. When the reassembled Panther Key is stolen during a blackout, M'Baku escapes from his cell as White Wolf has his own plans to keep the Panther Key safe which conflicts with Captain America and Black Panther's plans for it.
115	11	"The Lost Temple"	Kalvin Lee	Brandon Easton	November 25, 2018	511[76]	N/A
At a hidden observatory, Black Panther, Captain America, Shuri, and Baron Zemo find the location of the Shrouded Temple when they are transported to the other side of the Moon. After seeing a recorded transmission from T'Chanda on the Shrouded Temple's interface, Black Panther, Captain America, Shuri, and Baron Zemo find the door containing the most dangerous artifact called the Crown as the Shrouded Temple comes under attack by Killmonger, Ulysses Klaue, Madame Masque, and Tiger Shark where the attack knocks the Shrouded Temple out of orbit.
116	12	"Descent of the Shadow"	Tim Eldred	Margaret Dunlap	December 2, 2018	TBA	N/A
Following the defeat of Madame Masque and Ulysses Klaue, Black Panther, Captain America, Shuri, and Baron Zemo look for the Crown that the Shadow Council is after as Princess Zanda and Tiger Shark catch up to them and assist Killmonger. The rest of the Avengers show up to help fight the Shadow Council operatives until Baron Zemo puts the crown on himself and starts to become unstable due to it not being worn in Wakanda.
117	13	"The Last Avenger"	Kalvin Lee	Zach Craley	December 2, 2018	TBA	N/A
After Captain America supposedly sacrificed his life to prevent the Crown from emitting a destructive pulse, Black Panther and Shuri work to get the Crown back to Wakanda before it explodes. The Avengers pursue them after Black Widow claimed that Black Panther "killed" Captain America. As Black Panther is unable to reason with the Avengers with all his secrets coming to light, Black Panther and Shuri are on their own safeguarding the Crown until they are able to find a way to get back to Wakanda.
118	14	"The Vibranium Curtain"	Tim Eldred	Mark Henry	January 6, 2019	514[77]	N/A
119	15	Kalvin Lee	Trevor Devall	515[78]
Part 1: Tony Stark holds a memorial for Captain America following his claimed death and states that Black Panther was responsible while denying any knowledge of the Wakanda weapons. In addition, Tony also mentions that the nations of the world have pledged unity against Wakanda including Atlantis. After doing some training, Black Panther sneaks into the United States to track down Ulysses Klaue and the Vault's location to get some answers on where Killmonger is while evading the Avengers and Winter Soldier.
Part 2: Now that Black Panther has been incarcerated at the Vault, he begins to get his answers from Ulysses Klaue. He states that Killmonger is after the Heart of Wakanda and agrees to take him to the information about it if they escape from the Vault. Once they do with their equipment with them, Klaue double-crosses Black Panther when Adrian Toomes shows up to give Klaue his sonic emitter back in exchange for his help to get into Horizon High. When Toomes gets his Vulture suit back and decides to tie up some loose ends, Black Panther must work with Spider-Man to defeat Vulture.
120	16	"T'Chanda"	Tim Eldred	Eugene Son	January 13, 2019	516[79]	N/A
Now that they got Ulysses Klaue in their possession, Black Panther and Shuri bring him to the Hall of Royals which is the resting place of the past kings and queens of Wakanda as Klaue claims that Killmonger wanted to use the Crown to tap into the secrets of Wakanda so that he can take over Wakanda. They start with T'Chanda's grave where Black Panther uses the Crown to learn about his grandfather's past that involved T'Chanda, Captain America, and Peggy Carter dealing with an exchange of Wakandan technology between Hydra operatives led by Baron Heinrich Zemo and Arnim Zola and the Shadow Council. Though this was a ruse by Baron Zemo and Arnim Zola to capture T'Chanda and get him to open a box for the Shadow Council called Yemandi's Box.

Note: Stan Lee does a voice cameo of an army general. This episode was one of Stan Lee's final works before he died on November 12, 2018 from aspiration pneumonia.
121	17	"Yemandi"	Kalvin Lee	Denise Downer	January 20, 2019	517[80]	N/A
After reviewing T'Chanda's memories, Black Panther uses the Crown to learn about the past of Queen Yemandi which started when Yemandi has defeated the Highland Grizzly and faces off against a younger Thor for the Spear of Bashenga as the prize. As Thor is looking for a weapon that is worthy of a prince, he hitches a ride on Yemandi's Cutter and accompanies Yemandi on a mission to find Bashenga's Core. When Morgan le Fay also targets Bashenga's Core to use in her plot to rule the world and transforms Thor into a frog, Yemandi and Thor must work together to reclaim Bashenga's Core and defeat Morgan le Fay who has reshaped Bashenga's Core into the Crown.
122	18	"Bashenga"	Tim Eldred	Geoffrey Thorne	January 27, 2019	518[81]	N/A
After reviewing Yemandi's memories, Black Panther uses the Crown to learn about the past of Wakanda's founder Bashenga which started when he and his twin sister Bask discovered Vibranium while fleeing from some Atlantean warriors. They also find a red core underground that was in a Vibranium Asteroid. After Wakanda is further developed by Bashenga, Bask is still hooked on the red core as she wants to use its powers on the Atlantean raiders and other enemies of Wakanda. Pretty soon, she realizes Black Panther is watching the events unfold and uses her powers to trap his mind inside the Crown where she attacks him until he runs into T'Chaka and Captain America.
123	19	"King Breaker"	Kalvin Lee	Zach Craley	February 10, 2019	519[82]	N/A
124	20	Tim Eldred	Brandon Easton	520[83]
Part 1: To get on the good side of Attuma, his daughter Elanna, and Commander Orka, Iron Man had Black Widow and Hawkeye apprehend Killmonger and Tiger Shark. Now that Captain America is out of the Crown's pocket dimension, he figures out that Black Widow was actually Princess Zanda in disguise. With Captain America still recuperating and Shuri keeping an eye on Bask, Black Panther frees White Wolf to get into Atlantis and stop the Shadow Council from starting a war.

Part 2: With Princess Zanda's plot exposed and Lady Elanna rushing Hawkeye to the infirmary, White Wolf makes his way to the Atlantean throne room to disable the bomb that Princess Zanda wired in Tony Stark's armor. Once the bomb is disposed of, Black Panther, White Wolf, Lady Elanna, Attuma, and Tony Stark must work together to save Atlantis before it is destroyed while also fighting an escaped Killmonger who in the end kills Attuma. The Avengers take Killmonger prisoner to find out where the real Black Widow is being held captive, while Elanna releases Tiger Shark to prepare for her revenge on Killmonger and a planned war with the surface world.
125	21	"Widowmaker"	Kalvin Lee	Akela Cooper	February 17, 2019[84]	521[85]	N/A
With the information given to them by Killmonger, Black Panther, Iron Man, and Captain America look for the Shadow Council's base to find Black Widow. They trace her location to an La Isla Sombra that negates all technology. While exploring an abandoned laboratory, Black Panther, Iron Man, and Captain America find Black Widow who explains that the laboratory was where they developed plant monsters as part of their super soldier program. Afterward, Black Panther discovers that Bask has awoken and has sided with Killmonger and Madame Masque while also freeing M'Baku and Ulysses Klaue.
126	22	"Atlantis Attacks"	Tim Eldred	Trevor Devall	February 24, 2019[86]	522[87]	N/A
Bask has defeated Black Panther and takes control of Wakanda. Before Bask can have Black Panther executed, White Wolf rescues Black Panther and they run off with Ulysses Klaue as their hostage. As Shuri is now a prisoner of Bask, Black Panther and White Wolf work to get help from the giant bats. In retaliation for Madame Masque's laser being fired on Atlantis by Bask, Elanna and Tiger Shark lead the Atlanteans into attacking to get to Bask. With Wakanda on the threat of sinking and Bask having sacrificed her life to stop the laser, Black Panther now must use the Crown to save Wakanda. Black Panther manages to save Wakanda, and is about to make peace with Elanna and Atlantis, but hears of White Wolf's death at the hands of Tiger Shark. He viciously attacks Tiger Shark but relents from killing him. Instead, he again chooses peace, Elanna gives Tiger Shark to be judged by Wakanda, while Black Panther gives Killmonger to be judged by Atlantis, thus; signifying peace between the two nations. With Shuri now crowned queen of Wakanda, Black Panther takes the opportunity to reflect on what to do next but knows that the Black Panther will always be needed by Wakanda and the world.
127	23	"House of M"	Kalvin Lee	Henry Gilroy	February 24, 2019[88]	523[89]	N/A
The Avengers raid a HYDRA base and find that Arnim Zola was dismantled. They run into Black Panther, who was pursuing Madame Masque, and are soon attacked by Red Skull, Crossbones, Crimson Widow and Typhoid Mary even when Arnim Zola is reactivated. The past actions of Black Panther, the Avengers, and HYDRA have come back to haunt them when Madame Masque takes Iron Man and Red Skull captive to harness the knowledge of their technology and unify the world on her way. Now Black Panther and Hawkeye must put aside their differences and past grudges to stop Madame Masque.

Note: This episode is dedicated in memory of Stan Lee.

Note: Thor's character design is changed to match Chris Hemsworth's appearance in Thor: Ragnarok and Avengers: Infinity War.

Note: This is the final episode of the season and series.
Shorts (2017)
No.
overall	No. in
season	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original air date
1	1	"Teaser"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	June 2, 2017
After a presentation at school, Kamala protects a group of civilians from a mutant frog. She then goes to Avengers Compound, where she starts doubting her own abilities.
2	2	"Black Panther"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	June 3, 2017
Captain America and Ms. Marvel talk about Black Panther.
3	3	"Captain Marvel"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	June 4, 2017
Captain America and Ms. Marvel talk about Captain Marvel.
4	4	"Ant-Man and Wasp"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	June 5, 2017
Captain America and Ms. Marvel talk about Ant-Man and Wasp.
5	5	"Vision"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	June 6, 2017
Captain America and Ms. Marvel talk about Vision.
6	6	"Ms. Marvel"	Micah Gunnell	Eugene Son	June 7, 2017
Captain America reassures Ms. Marvel of her place in the Avengers.
References
 Sands, Rich (June 1, 2015). "Disney XD Renews (and Retitles) Marvel's Avengers and Ultimate Spider-Man Animated Series". TV Insider. Retrieved June 2, 2015.
 "Avengers Assemble S5 Retitled Avengers: Black Panther Quest". 22 July 2017.
 "Shows A-Z - Marvel's Avengers Assemble". The Futon Critic. Retrieved October 6, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (September 20, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (September 9-15, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (September 27, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (September 16-22, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (October 4, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (September 23-29, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (October 25, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (October 14-20, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (November 22, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (November 11-17, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (November 29, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (November 18-24, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (December 13, 2013). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (December 2-8, 2013)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (February 21, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (February 10-16, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (March 7, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (February 24-March 2, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (March 14, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (March 3-9, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (March 21, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (March 10-16, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (March 28, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (March 16-23, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (April 4, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (March 24-30, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (April 11, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (March 31-April 6, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (April 18, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (April 7-13, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Pucci, Douglas (May 17, 2014). "Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD ratings (May 5-11, 2014)". Son of the Bronx. Retrieved November 22, 2014.
 Khatchatourian, Maane (26 July 2014). "Disney XD Renews Marvel's 'Avengers Assemble,' 'Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H.'".
 Pucci, Douglas (January 28, 2015). "Sunday Final Nationals: Most Viewed 'Miss Universe Pageant' on NBC in Nine Years". TV Media Insights. Cross Mediaworks. Archived from the original on January 31, 2015. Retrieved January 29, 2015. Note: The ratings are in the comments section.
 Pucci, Douglas (February 24, 2015). "Sunday Final Nationals: The Oscars on ABC Hits Six-Year Low". TV Media Insights. Cross Mediaworks. Retrieved February 25, 2015. Note: The rating's in the comments section.
 Pucci, Douglas (March 3, 2015). "Sunday Final Nationals: 'Last Man on Earth' on Fox Bests All Broadcast Network Shows Among Adults 18-49". TV Media Insights. Cross MediaWorks. Retrieved March 9, 2015. Note: Pertinent information found in comments.
 Metcalf, Mitch (July 8, 2015). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 100 Sunday Cable Ratings (& Network Update): 7.5.2015". SHOWBUZZDAILY. Archived from the original on July 9, 2015. Retrieved July 8, 2015.
 Metcalf, Mitch (July 14, 2015). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 100 Sunday Cable Ratings (& Network Update): 7.12.2015". SHOWBUZZDAILY. Archived from the original on July 14, 2015. Retrieved July 14, 2015.
 Metcalf, Mitch (July 21, 2015). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 100 Sunday Cable Ratings (& Network Update): 7.19.2015". SHOWBUZZDAILY. Archived from the original on July 23, 2015. Retrieved July 21, 2015.
 Metcalf, Mitch (August 4, 2015). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 100 Sunday Cable Ratings (& Network Update): 8.2.2015". SHOWBUZZDAILY. Archived from the original on August 6, 2015. Retrieved August 4, 2015.
 Metcalf, Mitch (September 15, 2015). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 100 Sunday Cable Originals (& Network Update): 9.13.2015". Showbuzz Daily. Archived from the original on September 17, 2015. Retrieved September 15, 2015.
 Metcalf, Mitch (September 22, 2015). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 100 Sunday Cable Originals (& Network Update): 9.20.2015". Showbuzz Daily. Archived from the original on September 22, 2015. Retrieved September 22, 2015.
 "Marvel's Avengers: Ultron Revolution - Episode Guide". Zap2it. March 15, 2016. Retrieved March 15, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (March 15, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 3.13.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on March 15, 2016. Retrieved March 23, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (March 22, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 3.20.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on March 25, 2016. Retrieved March 23, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (March 29, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 3.27.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on April 1, 2016. Retrieved March 29, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (April 5, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 4.3.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on April 7, 2016. Retrieved April 5, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (April 10, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 4.10.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on April 13, 2016. Retrieved April 12, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (April 17, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 4.17.2016". Show Buzz daily. Archived from the original on April 21, 2016. Retrieved April 19, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (April 26, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 4.24.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on April 29, 2016. Retrieved April 26, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (May 3, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 5.1.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on May 6, 2016. Retrieved May 3, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (July 26, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 7.24.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on July 27, 2016. Retrieved August 17, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (August 2, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 7.31.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on August 5, 2016. Retrieved August 17, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (August 9, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 8.7.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on August 11, 2016. Retrieved August 17, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (August 16, 2016). "SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Update: 8.14.2016". Show Buzz Daily. Archived from the original on August 18, 2016. Retrieved August 17, 2016.
 Metcalf, Mitch (September 27, 2016). "Updated: ShowBuzzDaily's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 9.25.2016". ShowBuzzDaily. Archived from the original on September 28, 2016. Retrieved September 27, 2016.
 "Listings - TheFutonCritic.com - The Web's Best Television Resource". www.thefutoncritic.com.
 Metcalf, Mitch (October 11, 2016). "Updated: ShowBuzzDaily's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 10.9.2016". ShowBuzzDaily. Archived from the original on October 11, 2016. Retrieved October 12, 2016.
 "The Avengers Return for An Action-Packed One-Hour 'Marvel's Avengers: Secret Wars' Season Four Premiere on Saturday, June 17 on Disney XD". Marvel.com. Archived from the original on 2017-08-24. Retrieved 2017-05-29.
 "Watch". Sky.
 Metcalf, Mitch (June 20, 2017). "Updated: ShowBuzzDaily's Top 150 Saturday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 6.17.2017". ShowBuzzDaily. Archived from the original on June 21, 2017. Retrieved June 21, 2017.
 "The Sleeper Awakens". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-29. Retrieved 2017-09-29.
 "Prison Break". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-29. Retrieved 2017-09-29.
 "The Incredible Herc". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-07-18. Retrieved 2017-09-29.
 "Show Your Work". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-29. Retrieved 2017-09-29.
 "Sneakers". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-29. Retrieved 2017-09-29.
 "Why I Hate Halloween". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-30. Retrieved 2017-09-30.
 "The Once and Future Kang". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-30. Retrieved 2017-09-30.
 "Dimension Z". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-30. Retrieved 2017-09-30.
 "The Most Dangerous Hunt". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-10-01. Retrieved 2017-09-30.
 "Under the Spell of the Enchantress". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-10-01. Retrieved 2017-09-30.
 "UPDATED: SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 10.22.2017 - Showbuzz Daily". www.showbuzzdaily.com. Archived from the original on 2017-10-24.
 "The Return". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-09-30. Retrieved 2017-09-30.
 "New Year's Resolution". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2017-12-03. Retrieved 2017-12-02.
 "UPDATED: SHOWBUZZDAILY's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 12.3.2017 - Showbuzz Daily". www.showbuzzdaily.com. Archived from the original on 2017-12-06.
 "The Eye of Agamotto, Part One". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-01-02. Retrieved 2018-01-01.
 "The Eye of Agamotto, Part Two". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-01-02. Retrieved 2018-01-01.
 "Beyond". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-01-02. Retrieved 2018-01-01.
 "Underworld". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-01-02. Retrieved 2018-01-01.
 "The Immortal Weapon". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-01-02. Retrieved 2018-01-01.
 "The Vibranium Coast". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-01-02. Retrieved 2018-01-01.
 "Weirdworld". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-03-04. Retrieved 2018-03-03.
 "Westland". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-03-04. Retrieved 2018-03-03.
 "The Citadel". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-03-04. Retrieved 2018-03-03.
 "The Wastelands". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-03-04. Retrieved 2018-03-03.
 "All Things Must End". www.disneyabcpress.com. Archived from the original on 2018-03-04. Retrieved 2018-03-03.
 Metcalf, Mitch (September 24, 2018). "Updated: ShowBuzzDaily's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 9.23.2018". ShowBuzzDaily. Archived from the original on September 25, 2018. Retrieved September 24, 2018.
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/the-good-son/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/the-lost-temple/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/vibranium-curtain-part-one/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/vibranium-curtain-part-two/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/tchanda/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/yemandi/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/bashenga/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/king-breaker-part-one/[dead link]
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/king-breaker-part-two/[dead link]
 Listings | TheFutonCritic.com - The Web's Best Television Resource
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/widowmaker/[dead link]
 Listings | TheFutonCritic.com - The Web's Best Television Resource
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/atlantis-attacks/[dead link]
 Listings | TheFutonCritic.com - The Web's Best Television Resource
 https://www.disneyabcpress.com/disneyxd/shows/marvels-avengers-assemble/episodes/house-of-m/[dead link]
vte
Animated TV series based on Marvel Comics properties
Former
1960s debuts
The Marvel Super HeroesFantastic FourSpider-Man episodes
1970s debuts
The New Fantastic FourThe ThingSpider-Woman
1980s debuts
Spider-ManSpider-Man and His Amazing Friends episodesThe Incredible HulkX-Men: Pryde of the X-MenSolarman
1990s debuts
X-Men: The Animated Series charactersepisodesIron Man episodesFantastic Four episodesSpider-Man charactersepisodes The Venom SagaThe Incredible HulkSilver SurferSpider-Man Unlimited comicsThe Avengers: United They Stand
2000s debuts
X-Men: Evolution episodescharactersSpider-Man: The New Animated SeriesFantastic Four: World's Greatest HeroesThe Spectacular Spider-Man episodescharactersWolverine and the X-MenMarvel Superheroes: What the--?!Iron Man: Armored Adventures episodesThe Super Hero Squad Show episodes
2010s debuts
Black PantherMarvel Anime episodesThor & Loki: Blood BrothersThe Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes episodes "Breakout"charactersUltimate Spider-Man episodesAvengers Assemble episodesHulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. episodesMarvel Disk Wars: The Avengers episodesGuardians of the Galaxy episodesRocket & GrootAnt-ManMarvel Future AvengersSpider-Man episodesMarvel Super Hero AdventuresBig Hero 6: The Series episodes
2020s debuts
M.O.D.O.K.
Current
Spidey and His Amazing Friends (episodes)What If...?Hit-MonkeyBaymax!I Am GrootMoon Girl and Devil Dinosaur
Upcoming
X-Men '97
See Also
Marvel EntertainmentMarvel Productions Action HourAction UniverseMarvel AnimationMarvel Studios AnimationList of unproduced Marvel TV projects
Categories: Lists of Marvel Comics animated series episodesLists of American children's animated television series episodesAvengers (comics) listsAvengers (comics) television series
This page was last edited on 5 August 2023, at 12:37 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementWikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
Toggle limited content width
